
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<reference id="dataformat">
 <title>Current Data File Format</title>

 <partintro>
  <para>
   &regina; data files are saved in an optionally
   compressed &xml; format.  If a data file is compressed, it can be piped
   through <command>gunzip</command> to recover the plain text &xml;.
  </para>
  <para>
   This reference chapter documents the various &xml; elements that form
   a &regina; data file and how they are used.  The top-level element
   for a modern (third-generation) data file is &xml-regina;.
  </para>
  <para>
   &regina;'s file format has gone through a few major changes over the years:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>
     The <emphasis>third-generation</emphasis> format was introduced in
     &regina;&nbsp;7.0, and is the format described here.
     It is an &xml;-based format whose root element is &xml-regina;.
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>
     The <emphasis>second-generation</emphasis> format was used by &regina;
     versions 3.0&ndash;6.0.1, and is described in full detail in the
     <ulink url="https://regina-normal.github.io/6.0.1/docs/regina-xml/index.html">archived documentation from &regina;&nbsp;6.0.1</ulink>.
     This is also an &xml;-based format, but whose root element is
     &xml-reginadata;.
     &regina; can transparently read second-generation data files, and it can
     also write to them on request.
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>
     The <emphasis>first-generation</emphasis> format was a binary format
     used by &regina;&nbsp;2.4 and earlier, and was discontinued in mid-2002.
     &regina; can no longer read or write to it at all.
    </para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>
   Regarding international characters:
   As of &regina; version &utf8intro;, all &xml; data is encoded using &utf8;
   (which includes plain &ascii; as a subset).  In versions 4.4 and earlier,
   data was encoded in &latin1; without declaring this explicitly in the
   &xml; header; &regina; is aware of this, and treats all older
   data files as &latin1; when they are loaded.
  </para>
 </partintro>

 &data-abeliangroup;
 &data-angles;
 &data-anon;
 &data-anonref;
 &data-attachment;
 &data-code;
 &data-compact-surface;
 &data-component;
 &data-components;
 &data-compressingdisc;
 &data-connected;
 &data-connections;
 &data-container;
 &data-crossings;
 &data-euler-surface;
 &data-filtercomb;
 &data-filterprop;
 &data-filtertrivial;
 &data-fundgroup;
 &data-group;
 &data-H1;
 &data-H1Bdry;
 &data-H1Rel;
 &data-H2;
 &data-haken;
 &data-handlebody;
 &data-hypersurface;
 &data-hypersurfaces;
 &data-irreducible;
 &data-link;
 &data-node;
 &data-orbl-surface;
 &data-realbdry-surface;
 &data-regina;
 &data-reln;
 &data-script;
 &data-simplex;
 &data-snappeadata;
 &data-spanstrict;
 &data-spantaut;
 &data-spatiallink;
 &data-splitsfce;
 &data-struct;
 &data-surface;
 &data-surfaces;
 &data-tag;
 &data-textdata;
 &data-threesphere;
 &data-tri;
 &data-twosided;
 &data-txi;
 &data-var;
 &data-zeroeff;
</reference>

<reference id="removed">
 <title>Deprecated and Removed Elements</title>

 <partintro>
  <para>
   The following &xml; elements were used in older &regina; data files,
   but are no longer part of the current file format.
  </para>
  <para>
   Those elements that are marked as <emphasis>deprecated</emphasis> can still
   be read by the current version of &regina;, but will not be written when
   a data file is saved.
  </para>
  <para>
   Those elements that are marked as <emphasis>removed</emphasis> can no
   longer be read or written.  If &regina; attempts to read an old data file
   containing removed element(s), those removed elements will be silently
   ignored.
  </para>
 </partintro>

 &data-allowstrict;
 &data-allowtaut;
 &data-angleparams;
 &data-compact-filter;
 &data-euler-filter;
 &data-filter;
 &data-filter-combination;
 &data-filter-properties;
 &data-flags;
 &data-line;
 &data-op;
 &data-orbl-filter;
 &data-packet;
 &data-packet-dim2triangulation;
 &data-packet-dim3triangulation;
 &data-packet-dim4triangulation;
 &data-packet-triangulation;
 &data-packet-anglestructurelist;
 &data-packet-container;
 &data-packet-link;
 &data-packet-normalhypersurfacelist;
 &data-packet-normalsurfacelist;
 &data-packet-pdf;
 &data-packet-script;
 &data-packet-snappea;
 &data-packet-surfacefilter;
 &data-packet-text;
 &data-params;
 &data-pent;
 &data-pentachora;
 &data-pdf;
 &data-realbdry-filter;
 &data-reginadata;
 &data-simplices;
 &data-snappea;
 &data-solidtorus;
 &data-tet;
 &data-tetrahedra;
 &data-text;
 &data-threeball;
 &data-triangle;
 &data-triangles;
 &data-turaevviro;
</reference>
