
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-packet-anglestructurelist">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>packet (angle structure list)</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>packet (angle structure list)</refname>
  <refpurpose>Replaced by &xml-angles;</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
packet ::= (&xml-angleparams;?, &xml-struct;*,
            &xml-spanstrict;?, &xml-spantaut;?,
            &xml-tag;*, &xml-packet;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      See the general &xml-packet; element documentation.
     </entry></row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltdepver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   In &regina;&nbsp;6.0.1 and earlier, the &xml-packet; element was used
   to store every packet in the entire packet tree that makes up a
   &regina; data file.
   This page describes how the &xml-packet; element was structured when
   storing an angle structure list.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, each packet type has its own &xml; element;
   in particular, angle structure lists are now stored using the
   &xml-angles; element.
  </para>
  <para>
   An <emphasis>angle structure list</emphasis> packet
   stores a list of angle structures on a particular
   3-manifold triangulation.  Generally this list will contain the vertex
   structures whose convex span is the set of all angle structures on
   the triangulation.
  </para>
  <para>
   The parent element of this angle structure list must be the
   triangulation on which the angle structures lie.  The individual
   angle structures in this list are contained in the child &xml-struct;
   elements.
  </para>
  <para>
   The parameters of the angle structure enumeration that created this
   list are stored in the child &xml-angleparams; element.  &regina;
   versions 4.6 and earlier did not write this &xml-angleparams; element
   (since there were no parameters to select).  If the &xml-angleparams;
   element is missing then all parameters are assumed to take on their
   default values as described in the &xml-angleparams; documentation.
  </para>
  <para>
   The roles played by the child &xml-tag; and &xml-packet; elements are
   described in the general &xml-packet; element documentation.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>packet</sgmltag> for
    an angle structure list packet:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-dim3triangulation;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>packet</sgmltag> for
    an angle structure list packet:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-angleparams;</member>
     <member>&xml-packet;</member>
     <member>&xml-spanstrict;</member>
     <member>&xml-spantaut;</member>
     <member>&xml-struct;</member>
     <member>&xml-tag;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
