
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-surfaces">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>surfaces</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>surfaces</refname>
  <refpurpose>A normal surface list packet</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
surfaces ::= (&xml-surface;*,
              &xml-tag;*,
              &packetsyn1;
              &packetsyn2;
              &packetsyn3;
              &packetsyn4;
              &packetsyn5;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>coords</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>tri</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     &packetattrlist2col;
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltaddedver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   This represents a <emphasis>normal surface list packet</emphasis>,
   one of the many types of packet that together form the
   <emphasis>packet tree</emphasis> that a user sees when they open a
   &regina; data file.
  </para>
  <para>
   A normal surface list stores a list of normal surfaces in a particular
   3-manifold triangulation.  This list will often contain the vertex
   surfaces whose convex span is the set of all normal surfaces in
   the triangulation that satisfy certain constraints, though
   other lists (such as fundamental surfaces, or other customised lists)
   can be stored also.
  </para>
  <para>
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, a normal surface list no longer needs to
   be a child packet of its underlying triangulation.
   Instead, the triangulation is denoted by the <sgmltag>tri</sgmltag>
   attribute.  This must be the ID of a 3-dimensional triangulation packet
   that appears <emphasis>before this list in the packet tree</emphasis>,
   with respect to a pre-order depth-first traversal
   (i.e., the triangulation must appear before this list in the &xml;
   data file).  The triangulation may be an anonymous packet (see &xml-anon;).
  </para>
  <para>
   The individual normal surfaces in this list are contained in the
   child &xml-surface; elements.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, the parameters of the normal surface enumeration
   that created this list are stored in the attributes; there is no
   longer a child &xml-params; element.
  </para>
  &packetchilddesc;

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   &packetparents;
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>surfaces</sgmltag>,
    and are specific to the normal surface list packet type:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-surface;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
   &packetchildren;
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <para>
   The following attributes are specific to normal surface lists:
  </para>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies the algorithm that was used to enumerate these normal surfaces.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be an integer, formed as a bitwise OR combination of
      constants from the <classname>NormalAlgFlags</classname> enumeration
      in &regina;'s calculation engine.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 17, which combines the
      <classname>NormalAlgFlags</classname> constants
      <literal>NS_VERTEX_VIA_REDUCED</literal> (1) and
      <literal>NS_TREE</literal> (16), indicating that the enumeration used
      the tree traversal method and did the bulk of its work in a
      smaller coordinate system.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>coords</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies which coordinate system was used in the normal surface
      enumeration.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be a non-negative integer that matches one of the
      constants from the <classname>NormalCoords</classname> enumeration
      in &regina;'s calculation engine.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 102, which is the
      constant <literal>NormalCoords::QuadOct</literal> that represents
      standard coordinates for octagonal almost normal surfaces.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>tri</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     The ID of the triangulation in which these normal surfaces live.
     This must match the <sgmltag>id</sgmltag> attribute of a
     3-dimensional triangulation that appears before this list in a
     pre-order depth-first traversal of the full packet tree.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies exactly which normal surfaces this list contains.
      In particular, this flag indicates whether the list contains all
      vertex surfaces, all fundamental surfaces, or some other
      customised list.  It also indicates whether the list is
      restricted to properly embedded surfaces.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be an integer, formed as a bitwise OR combination of
      constants from the <classname>NormalListFlags</classname> enumeration
      in &regina;'s calculation engine.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 5, which combines the
      <classname>NormalListFlags</classname> constants
      <literal>NS_EMBEDDED_ONLY</literal> (1) and
      <literal>NS_VERTEX</literal> (4).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
  &packetattrdesc;
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
