
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-triangle">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>triangle</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>triangle</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single triangle in a 2-manifold triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
triangle ::= (#PCDATA)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-triangle; element stores a single triangle in a 2-manifold
   triangulation, along with its associated edge gluings.
  </para>
  <para>
   The character data of this &xml; element should be a
   whitespace-separated list of three integer pairs, representing the
   gluings of edges 0, 1 and 2 of this triangle.  Note that
   edge <replaceable>i</replaceable> is always opposite vertex
   <replaceable>i</replaceable> in a triangle.
  </para>
  <para>
   For each pair, the first integer represents the triangle to which
   the edge is glued (note that triangles in a triangulation are
   numbered 0, 1, 2, etc.).  The second integer represents the
   permutation of vertices from this triangle to the other triangle
   describing precisely how this gluing takes place.  This permutation
   will take the current edge number of this triangle to the corresponding
   edge number of the adjacent triangle, and the other two vertex numbers
   of this triangle to the corresponding two vertex numbers on the
   adjacent triangle to which they are identified by this gluing.
  </para>
  <para>
   A permutation is represented as an integer between 0 and 5 inclusive,
   representing the index of the permutation into Regina's internal
   array <literal>Perm3::S3</literal>.
   Specifically, the integers 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 represent the permutations
   (0,1,2), (0,2,1), (1,2,0), (1,0,2), (2,0,1) and (2,1,0) respectively.
  </para>
  <para>
   If a face is a boundary face (i.e., it is not glued to anything), the
   two corresponding integers stored in the &xml; character data should
   be -1 and -1.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>triangle</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-triangles;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>triangle</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable description of the role that this triangle plays
      in the overall 2-manifold triangulation.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
