
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-hypersurface">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>hypersurface</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>hypersurface</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single normal hypersurface in a 4-manifold triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
hypersurface ::= (#PCDATA,
             &xml-compact-surface;?, &xml-realbdry-surface;?)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>name</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-hypersurface; element stores a single normal hypersurface in a
   4-manifold triangulation.
  </para>
  <para>
   A normal hypersurface in a <replaceable>P</replaceable>-pentachoron
   triangulation is traditionally represented by a vector of integers, whose
   length depends upon the underlying coordinate system.  For instance, under
   standard tetrahedron-prism coordinates the vector will have length
   15<replaceable>P</replaceable>.  The underlying coordinate
   system is specified in the &xml-params; element of the parent
   &xml-packet-normalhypersurfacelist;.
  </para>
  <para>
   The normal hypersurface vector is stored as the character data of this
   &xml; element as follows.
   Since a normal hypersurface vector will generally contain many zeroes,
   only the non-zero elements are listed.  The character data should
   thus consist of a whitespace-separated sequence of integer pairs.
   Each integer pair represents a non-zero coordinate in the vector; the
   first element of the pair identifies which coordinate is being
   described (coordinates are numbered 0, 1, 2, ...) and the second element
   of the pair is the actual value at this coordinate.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>hypersurface</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-normalhypersurfacelist;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>hypersurface</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-compact-surface;</member>
     <member>&xml-realbdry-surface;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The length of the underlying normal hypersurface vector.
      This depends upon the coordinate system in which the normal
      hypersurface was originally generated.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>name</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable name given to this hypersurface.  Hypersurface names
      need not be distinct and exist merely for the convenience of the user.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a normal hypersurface in a
   4-pentachoron triangulation.  The normal hypersurface vector is:
   <programlisting>
(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)</programlisting>
  </para>
  <para>
   The child elements of this normal surface indicate that the
   surface is compact and has no real boundary.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;hypersurface len="60"&gt; 10 1 25 1 36 1 51 1
    &lt;realbdry value="F"/&gt;
    &lt;compact value="T"/&gt; &lt;/hypersurface&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
