
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-simplices">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>simplices</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>simplices</refname>
  <refpurpose>The top-dimeinsional simplices that form a
  <replaceable>dim</replaceable>-dimensional triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
simplices ::= (&xml-simplex;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>size</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-simplices; element stores the entire set of top-dimensional
   simplices that form a <replaceable>dim</replaceable>-dimensional
   triangulation, for dimensions
   5 &le; <replaceable>dim</replaceable> &le; 15.
  </para>
  <para>
   The total number of simplices must be specified by the
   <sgmltag>size</sgmltag> attribute.  The individual simplices are
   numbered 0, 1, 2, etc., and their facet gluings are described by the
   corresponding child &xml-simplex; elements.  There must be precisely
   <replaceable>size</replaceable> child &xml-simplex; elements in total.
  </para>
  <note><para>
   The &xml-simplices; element is only for use in higher dimensions
   5 &le; <replaceable>dim</replaceable> &le; 15.
   For the smaller dimensions 2, 3 and 4, the specialised tags
   &xml-triangles;, &xml-tetrahedra; and &xml-pentachora;
   should be used instead.
  </para></note>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>simplices</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-triangulation;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>simplices</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-simplex;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>size</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The total number of top-dimensional simplices in this set.
      Note that there must be precisely this many child &xml-simplex; elements.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a 6-dimensional triangulation
   of the product
   B<superscript>5</superscript>&times;S<superscript>1</superscript>,
   formed from two 6-simplices.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;simplices size="2"&gt;
  &lt;simplex&gt; 1 14038087 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 2054353 &lt;/simplex&gt;
  &lt;simplex&gt; 0 14038087 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 0 2054353 &lt;/simplex&gt;
&lt;/simplices&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
