
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-tetrahedra">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>tetrahedra</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>tetrahedra</refname>
  <refpurpose>Replaced by &xml-tri;</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
tetrahedra ::= (&xml-tet;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>ntet</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltdepver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   This element was used in the past to store all tetrahedra
   in a 3-dimensional triangulation.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, these tetrahedra are now stored directly
   within the &xml-tri; element (which replaces the old
   &xml-packet; element for triangulation packets), and each tetrahedron
   is encoded in a &xml-simplex; element (as opposed to the &xml-tet;
   elements described here).
  </para>
  <para>
   A &xml-tetrahedra; element stores the entire set of tetrahedra forming a
   3-dimensional triangulation.
  </para>
  <para>
   The total number of tetrahedra must be specified by the
   <sgmltag>ntet</sgmltag> attribute.  The individual tetrahedra are
   numbered 0, 1, 2, etc., and their face gluings are described by the
   corresponding child &xml-tet; elements.  There must be precisely
   <replaceable>ntet</replaceable> child &xml-tet; elements in total.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>tetrahedra</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-dim3triangulation;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>tetrahedra</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-tet;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>ntet</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The total number of tetrahedra in this set.  Note that there must
      be precisely this many child &xml-tet; elements.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a triangulation of a
   two-tetrahedron (1, 1, 2) layered solid torus.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;tetrahedra ntet=&quot;2&quot;&gt;
  &lt;tet&gt; 1 78 1 78 -1 -1 -1 -1 &lt;/tet&gt;
  &lt;tet&gt; 1 57 1 147 0 78 0 78 &lt;/tet&gt;
&lt;/tetrahedra&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
