
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-struct">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>struct</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>struct</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single angle structure</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
struct ::= (#PCDATA, &xml-flags;?)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-struct; element stores a single angle structure on a
   3-manifold triangulation.
  </para>
  <para>
   An angle structure on a <replaceable>T</replaceable>-tetrahedron
   triangulation is represented by a vector of
   3<replaceable>T</replaceable>+1 integers.  This vector is stored as
   the character data of this &xml; element as follows.
  </para>
  <para>
   Since an angle structure vector will generally contain many zeroes,
   only the non-zero elements are listed.  The character data should
   thus consist of a whitespace-separated sequence of integer pairs.
   Each integer pair represents a non-zero coordinate in the vector; the
   first element of the pair identifies which coordinate is being
   described (coordinates are numbered 0, 1, 2, ...) and the second element
   of the pair is the actual value at this coordinate.
  </para>
  <para>
   There are 3<replaceable>T</replaceable> actual angles stored in an
   angle structure; these are
   <literal>0:01/23</literal>, <literal>0:02/13</literal>,
   <literal>0:03/12</literal>, <literal>1:01/23</literal>,
   <literal>1:02/13</literal>, <literal>1:03/12</literal>,
   <literal>2:01/23</literal>, etc, where
   <literal><replaceable>t</replaceable>:<replaceable>ab</replaceable>/<replaceable>cd</replaceable></literal>
   represents the angle assigned to the edge in tetrahedron
   <replaceable>t</replaceable> that joins tetrahedron vertices
   <replaceable>a</replaceable> and <replaceable>b</replaceable>, as
   well as the (opposite) edge that joins tetrahedron vertices
   <replaceable>c</replaceable> and <replaceable>d</replaceable>
   (<replaceable>a</replaceable>, <replaceable>b</replaceable>,
   <replaceable>c</replaceable> and <replaceable>d</replaceable>
   will always be 0, 1, 2 and 3 in some order).
  </para>
  <para>
   To determine the <replaceable>k</replaceable>th of these angles, take
   the <replaceable>k</replaceable>th integer in the angle structure
   vector, divide by the final element of the vector and multiply by &pi;.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Flags</title>
   <para>
    The child &xml-flags; element is deprecated, and should not be used.
    As of Regina&nbsp;4.93, the &xml-flags; element will not be written,
    and will be ignored when reading older data files.
   </para>
   <para>
    In older versions of Regina, the &xml-flags; element was used to
    store properties of the angle structure.
    The flags were a bitwise combination of the following values:
   </para>
   <informaltable frame="all">
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="8*"/>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry><emphasis role="bold">Value</emphasis></entry>
       <entry><emphasis role="bold">Meaning</emphasis></entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>1</entry>
       <entry>The angle structure is strict (all angles are strictly
        between 0 and &pi;).  This flag is only meaningful if the angle
        structure type has been calculated; see below.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>2</entry>
       <entry>The angle structure is taut (all angles are either 0 or
        &pi;).  This flag is only meaningful if the angle structure type
        has been calculated; see below.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry>4</entry>
       <entry>The angle structure type (strict/taut) has been
        calculated.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </informaltable>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>struct</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-anglestructurelist;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>struct</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-flags;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The length of the angle structure vector.
      This will always be 3<replaceable>T</replaceable>+1, where
      <replaceable>T</replaceable> is the number of tetrahedra in the
      underlying 3-manifold triangulation.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents an angle structure on a
   2-tetrahedron triangulation.  The angle structure vector is
   (0, 0, 2, 1, 1, 0, 2).  The corresponding six angles are
   (0, 0, &pi;, &pi;/2, &pi;/2, 0).
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;struct len=&quot;7&quot;&gt; 2 2 3 1 4 1 6 2 &lt;/struct&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
