
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-tet">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>tet</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>tet</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single tetrahedron in a 3-dimensional triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
tet ::= (#PCDATA)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-tet; element stores a single tetrahedron in a 3-dimensional
   triangulation, along with its associated face gluings.
  </para>
  <para>
   The character data of this &xml; element should be a
   whitespace-separated list of four integer pairs, representing the
   gluings of faces 0, 1, 2 and 3 of this tetrahedron.  Note that
   face <replaceable>i</replaceable> is always opposite vertex
   <replaceable>i</replaceable> in a tetrahedron.
  </para>
  <para>
   For each pair, the first integer represents the tetrahedron to which
   the face is glued (note that tetrahedra in a triangulation are
   numbered 0, 1, 2, etc.).  The second integer represents the
   permutation of vertices from this tetrahedron to the other tetrahedron
   describing precisely how this gluing takes place.  This permutation
   will take the current face number of this tetrahedron to the corresponding
   face number of the adjacent tetrahedron, and the other three vertex numbers
   of this tetrahedron to the corresponding three vertex numbers on the
   adjacent tetrahedron to which they are identified by this gluing.
  </para>
  <para>
   A permutation is represented as a one-byte integer as follows.
   If the permutation maps 0, 1, 2 and 3 to
   <replaceable>a</replaceable>, <replaceable>b</replaceable>,
   <replaceable>c</replaceable> and <replaceable>d</replaceable>
   respectively (where
   <replaceable>a</replaceable>, <replaceable>b</replaceable>,
   <replaceable>c</replaceable> and <replaceable>d</replaceable> are
   0, 1, 2 and 3 in some order), the corresponding one-byte integer
   is
   (<replaceable>a</replaceable> + 4<replaceable>b</replaceable> +
   16<replaceable>c</replaceable> + 64<replaceable>d</replaceable>).
   For example, the identity permutation which maps (0, 1, 2, 3) to
   (0, 1, 2, 3) is represented by the one-byte integer
   (0 + 4 + 32 + 192), which is 228 (or -28 if the byte is signed).
  </para>
  <para>
   If a face is a boundary face (i.e., it is not glued to anything), the
   two corresponding integers stored in the &xml; character data should
   be -1 and -1.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>tet</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-tetrahedra;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>tet</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable description of the role that this tetrahedron plays
      in the overall triangulation.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents tetrahedron 0 in a
   triangulation.  Its faces 0 and 1 are both glued to tetrahedron 1
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0, 1, 2, 3) to (2, 3, 0, 1);
   in particular, its face 0 is glued to face 2 of tetrahedron 1 and
   its face 1 is glued to face 3 of tetrahedron 1.
   Its faces 2 and 3 are each boundary faces.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;tet&gt; 1 78 1 78 -1 -1 -1 -1 &lt;/tet&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
