
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-tri">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>tri</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>tri</refname>
  <refpurpose>A triangulation packet</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
tri ::= (&xml-simplex;*,
         &xml-fundgroup;?, &xml-H1;?, &xml-H1Bdry;?, &xml-H1Rel;?, &xml-H2;?,
         &xml-splitsfce;?, &xml-zeroeff;?,
         &xml-threesphere;?, &xml-threeball;?, &xml-solidtorus;?, &xml-txi;?,
         &xml-irreducible;?, &xml-compressingdisc;?, &xml-haken;?,
         &xml-tag;*,
         &packetsyn1;
         &packetsyn2;
         &packetsyn3;
         &packetsyn4;
         &packetsyn5;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>dim</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>perm</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>size</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     &packetattrlist2col;
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltaddedver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   This represents a <emphasis>triangulation packet</emphasis>,
   one of the many types of packet that together form the
   <emphasis>packet tree</emphasis> that a user sees when they open a
   &regina; data file.
  </para>
  <para>
   A triangulation packet stores a <replaceable>d</replaceable>-dimensional
   triangulation (typically of a <replaceable>d</replaceable>-manifold),
   for any dimension
   2&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>d</replaceable>&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;15.
  </para>
  <para>
   The total number of top-dimensional simplices in the triangulation
   (e.g., the total number of tetrahedra in the case
   <replaceable>d</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;3) must be specified by the
   <sgmltag>size</sgmltag> attribute.  The individual simplices are
   numbered 0, 1, 2, etc., and the gluings between them are described by the
   corresponding child &xml-simplex; elements.  There must be precisely
   <replaceable>size</replaceable> child &xml-simplex; elements in total.
  </para>
  <para>
   There are additional optional child elements
   (e.g., &xml-fundgroup;, &xml-H1;, etc.) that can be used to store
   known properties of this triangulation.  Some of these are only used in
   particular dimensions, as noted in the
   <emphasis>Children</emphasis> section below.
  </para>
  &packetchilddesc;

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   &packetparents;
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>tri</sgmltag>,
    and are used for triangulations in all dimensions:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-fundgroup;</member>
     <member>&xml-H1;</member>
     <member>&xml-simplex;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
   <para>
    For triangulations in dimensions&nbsp;3 and&nbsp;4,
    the following child element may also occur:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-H2;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
   <para>
    In addition, for triangulations in dimension&nbsp;3,
    there are many more optional child elements:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-compressingdisc;</member>
     <member>&xml-H1Bdry;</member>
     <member>&xml-H1Rel;</member>
     <member>&xml-haken;</member>
     <member>&xml-irreducible;</member>
     <member>&xml-splitsfce;</member>
     <member>&xml-solidtorus;</member>
     <member>&xml-threeball;</member>
     <member>&xml-threesphere;</member>
     <member>&xml-txi;</member>
     <member>&xml-zeroeff;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
   &packetchildren;
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <para>
   The following attributes are specific to triangulation packets:
  </para>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>dim</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     Indicates the dimension of the triangulation.
     This must be an integer between 2 and 15 inclusive.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>perm</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     Indicates how gluing permutations are encoded within each
     &xml-simplex; element.
     Possible values are <literal>index</literal> (where permutations
     are denoted by indices into the symmetric group
     S<subscript><replaceable>dim</replaceable>+1</subscript>)
     or <literal>imagepack</literal> (where permutations are denoted by
     &ldquo;image packs&rdquo;).  See the &xml-simplex; element for more
     information on each of these encodings.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>size</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     Indicates the total number of top-dimensional simplices in the
     triangulation (e.g., the total number of tetrahedra in the case
     <sgmltag>dim</sgmltag>&nbsp;=&nbsp;3).
     This must be a non-negative integer, and must be equal to the
     number of child &xml-simplex; elements.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 &packetattrdesc;
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a three-tetrahedron triangulation of
   the 3-manifold
   RP<superscript>2</superscript>&nbsp;&times;&nbsp;S<superscript>1</superscript>,
   along with some pre-computed homology groups.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;tri dim=&quot;3&quot; size=&quot;3&quot; perm=&quot;index&quot; label=&quot;RP² x S¹&quot;&gt;
  &lt;simplex&gt; 1 0 1 0 2 11 2 2 &lt;/simplex&gt;
  &lt;simplex&gt; 0 0 0 0 2 21 2 12 &lt;/simplex&gt;
  &lt;simplex&gt; 0 13 0 4 1 21 1 8 &lt;/simplex&gt;
  &lt;H1&gt;&lt;abeliangroup rank=&quot;1&quot;&gt; 2 &lt;/abeliangroup&gt;&lt;/H1&gt;
  &lt;H1Rel&gt;&lt;abeliangroup rank=&quot;1&quot;&gt; 2 &lt;/abeliangroup&gt;&lt;/H1Rel&gt;
  &lt;H1Bdry&gt;&lt;abeliangroup rank=&quot;0&quot;&gt; &lt;/abeliangroup&gt;&lt;/H1Bdry&gt;
  &lt;H2&gt;&lt;abeliangroup rank=&quot;0&quot;&gt; 2 &lt;/abeliangroup&gt;&lt;/H2&gt;
&lt;/tri>
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
