
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-connections">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>connections</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>connections</refname>
  <refpurpose>The connections between crossings in a knot/link diagram</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
connections ::= (#PCDATA)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-connections; element encodes the connections between the
   different crossings in a knot/link diagram.
   Recall that knot/link diagrams in &regina; are oriented, and the
   crossings in a diagram are numbered 0, 1, 2, and so on.
  </para>
  <para>
   If a link diagram has <replaceable>n</replaceable> crossings, then
   the character data of this &xml; element should be a
   whitespace-separated list of exactly 2<replaceable>n</replaceable> tokens.
   These represent the connections from the upper strand of
   crossing&nbsp;0, then the lower strand of crossing&nbsp;0,
   then the upper strand of crossing&nbsp;1, then the lower strand of
   crossing&nbsp;1, and so on.
   By &ldquo;the connection from&rdquo; some strand of some
   crossing, we mean the <emphasis>next</emphasis> crossing that you
   encounter if you traverse the (oriented) link from the original
   strand/crossing.
  </para>
  <para>
   Each such token encodes either the upper or lower strand of some crossing.
   It should be in the form
   <literal>^</literal><replaceable>k</replaceable> to encode the
   upper strand of crossing number <replaceable>k</replaceable>,
   or the form <literal>_</literal><replaceable>k</replaceable> to encode the
   lower strand of crossing number <replaceable>k</replaceable>.
   Here the symbols <literal>^</literal> and <literal>_</literal> are
   literal characters, whereas <replaceable>k</replaceable> should be
   replaced by a crossing number.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>connections</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-link;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>connections</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents the Whitehead link.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;crossings size=&quot;5&quot;&gt;
- - + + -
&lt;/crossings&gt;
&lt;connections&gt;
_1 ^1
_2 ^4
_4 ^3
_0 ^2
_3 ^0
&lt;/connections&gt;
&lt;components size=&quot;2&quot;&gt;
^0 _0
&lt;/components&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
