
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-simplex">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>simplex</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>simplex</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single top-dimensional simplex in a
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable>-dimensional triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
simplex ::= (#PCDATA)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-simplex; element stores a single top-dimensional simplex in a
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable>-dimensional triangulation, along with its
   associated facet gluings, for dimensions
   5 &le; <replaceable>dim</replaceable> &le; 15.
  </para>
  <para>
   The character data of this &xml; element should be a
   whitespace-separated list of <replaceable>dim</replaceable>+1
   integer pairs, representing the gluings of facets
   0, 1, ..., <replaceable>dim</replaceable> of this simplex.  Note that
   facet <replaceable>i</replaceable> is always opposite vertex
   <replaceable>i</replaceable> in a top-dimensional simplex.
  </para>
  <para>
   For each pair, the first integer represents the other top-dimensional
   simplex to which the facet is glued (note that simplices in a triangulation
   are numbered 0, 1, 2, etc.).  The second integer represents the
   permutation of vertices from this simplex to the other simplex
   describing precisely how this gluing takes place.  This permutation
   will take the current facet number of this simplex to the corresponding
   facet number of the adjacent simplex, and the other
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable> vertex numbers of this simplex
   to the corresponding <replaceable>dim</replaceable> vertex numbers on
   the adjacent simplex to which they are identified by this gluing.
  </para>
  <para>
   A permutation is represented as an integer as follows.
   If the permutation maps 0, 1, ..., <replaceable>dim</replaceable> to
   <replaceable>a0</replaceable>, <replaceable>a1</replaceable>, ...,
   <replaceable>aDim</replaceable> respectively (where
   <replaceable>a0</replaceable>, <replaceable>a1</replaceable>, ...,
   <replaceable>aDim</replaceable> are 0, 1, ..., <replaceable>dim</replaceable>
   in some order), then the corresponding integer is
   (<replaceable>a0</replaceable> +
   <replaceable>B</replaceable>&nbsp;<replaceable>a1</replaceable> +
   <replaceable>B</replaceable><superscript>2</superscript>&nbsp;<replaceable>a2</replaceable> +
   ... +
   <replaceable>B</replaceable><superscript><replaceable>dim</replaceable></superscript>&nbsp;<replaceable>aDim</replaceable>).
   Here the &ldquo;base&rdquo; <replaceable>B</replaceable> is
   <replaceable>B</replaceable> = 8 for dimensions
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable> = 5..7, and
   <replaceable>B</replaceable> = 16 for dimensions
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable> = 8..15.
   As an example, the identity permutation for dimension
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable> = 8 which maps (0, 1, ..., 8) to
   (0, 1, ..., 8) is represented by the integer
   (0 + 1&times;16 + 2&times;256 + ... + 8&times;4294967296),
   which is 36344967696.
  </para>
  <para>
   If a facet is a boundary facet (i.e., it is not glued to anything), the
   two corresponding integers stored in the &xml; character data should
   be -1 and -1.
  </para>
  <warning><para>
   For dimensions <replaceable>dim</replaceable> = 5..7,
   permutations are represented by 32-bit integers.
   In contrast, for dimensions <replaceable>dim</replaceable> = 8..15,
   permutations are represented by 64-bit integers.
   If you are writing code that reads &regina; data files, you may need
   to use a large integer type
   (such as <literal>long&nbsp;long</literal> in &cpp;) accordingly.
  </para></warning>
  <note><para>
   The &xml-simplex; element is only for use in higher dimensions
   5 &le; <replaceable>dim</replaceable> &le; 15.
   For the smaller dimensions 2, 3 and 4, the specialised tags
   &xml-triangle;, &xml-tet; and &xml-pent; should be used instead.
  </para></note>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>simplex</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-simplices;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>simplex</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable description of the role that this top-dimensional
      simplex plays in the overall triangulation.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents simplex number 0 in a
   6-dimensional triangulation.
   Facet 0 of this simplex is glued to facet 6 of simplex number 1,
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0,1,2,3,4,5,6) to (6,0,1,2,3,4,5).
   Facet 6 of this simplex is glued to facet 0 of simplex number 1,
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0,1,2,3,4,5,6) to (1,2,3,4,5,6,0).
   The remaining facets 1,...,5 of this simplex are all boundary facets.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;simplex&gt; 1 14038087 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 2054353 &lt;/simplex&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
