
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-filter">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>filter</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>filter</refname>
  <refpurpose>A normal surface filter</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
filter ::= (<replaceable>type-specific content</replaceable>)</synopsis>
      The contents of a <sgmltag>filter</sgmltag> element
      depend upon the particular type of filter (such as combination
      filter or filter by basic properties).
      The specific content model for each filter type is documented on
      its own reference page; see below for details.
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>typeid</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-filter; element represents a normal surface filter, used to
   filter desirable surfaces from a large list.
  </para>
  <para>
   Different types of filter are available, and the precise
   &xml-filter; content model differs between filter types.
   These type-specific content models are individually documented on
   the following reference pages.
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>&xml-filter-combination;</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&xml-filter-properties;</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>filter</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-surfacefilter;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The elements occurring in <sgmltag>filter</sgmltag> depend upon the
    specific filter type; these are documented on separate reference
    pages for each filter type (see above).
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     The filter type expressed as a human-readable string.
     Example types are <literal>Combination filter</literal> and
     <literal>Filter by basic properties</literal>.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>typeid</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     The filter type expressed as an internal
     identification code.  This will be a non-negative integer.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
