
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-pent">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>pent</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>pent</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single pentachoron in a 4-dimensional triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
pent ::= (#PCDATA)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-pent; element stores a single pentachoron in a 4-dimensional
   triangulation, along with its associated facet gluings.
  </para>
  <para>
   The character data of this &xml; element should be a
   whitespace-separated list of five integer pairs, representing the
   gluings of facets 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this pentachoron.  Note that
   facet <replaceable>i</replaceable> is always opposite vertex
   <replaceable>i</replaceable> in a pentachoron.
  </para>
  <para>
   For each pair, the first integer represents the pentachoron to which
   the facet is glued (note that pentachora in a triangulation are
   numbered 0, 1, 2, etc.).  The second integer represents the
   permutation of vertices from this pentachoron to the other pentachoron
   describing precisely how this gluing takes place.  This permutation
   will take the current facet number of this pentachoron
   to the corresponding facet number of the adjacent pentachoron,
   and the other four vertex numbers of this pentachoron to the
   corresponding four vertex numbers on the adjacent pentachoron to
   which they are identified by this gluing.
  </para>
  <para>
   A permutation is represented as a two-byte integer as follows.
   If the permutation maps 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 to
   <replaceable>a</replaceable>, <replaceable>b</replaceable>,
   <replaceable>c</replaceable>, <replaceable>d</replaceable> and
   <replaceable>e</replaceable> respectively (where
   <replaceable>a</replaceable>, <replaceable>b</replaceable>,
   <replaceable>c</replaceable>, <replaceable>d</replaceable> and
   <replaceable>e</replaceable> are
   0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 in some order), then the corresponding two-byte integer is
   (<replaceable>a</replaceable> + 8<replaceable>b</replaceable> +
   64<replaceable>c</replaceable> + 512<replaceable>d</replaceable> +
   4096<replaceable>e</replaceable>).
   For example, the identity permutation which maps (0, 1, 2, 3) to
   (0, 1, 2, 3) is represented by the two-byte integer
   (0 + 8 + 128 + 1536 + 16384), which is 18056.
  </para>
  <para>
   If a facet is a boundary facet (i.e., it is not glued to anything), the
   two corresponding integers stored in the &xml; character data should
   be -1 and -1.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>pent</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-pentachora;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>pent</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable description of the role that this pentachoron plays
      in the overall triangulation.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents pentachoron number 0 in a
   4-dimensional triangulation.
   Facet 0 of this pentachoron is glued to facet 4 of pentachoron number 1,
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0,1,2,3,4) to (4,0,1,2,3).
   Facet 4 of this pentachoron is glued to facet 0 of pentachoron number 1,
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0,1,2,3,4) to (1,2,3,4,0).
   The remaining facets 1,2,3 of this pentachoron are all boundary facets.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;pent&gt; 1 14038087 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 2054353 &lt;/pent&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
