
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-params">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>params</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>params</refname>
  <refpurpose>Parameters for a normal surface/hypersurface enumeration</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
params ::=</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>embedded</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type> (deprecated)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>flavour</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>flavourid</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-params; element stores the parameters used in an enumeration
   of vertex normal surfaces or hypersurfaces.
   Typically these parameters are supplied
   by the user when a new normal surface/hypersurface list is created.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>param</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-normalhypersurfacelist;</member>
     <member>&xml-packet-normalsurfacelist;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>params</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies the algorithm that was used to enumerate these normal
      surfaces/hypersurfaces.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be an integer, formed as a bitwise OR combination of
      constants from &regina;'s calculation engine.
      For normal surfaces in a 3-manifold triangulation, these constants
      are taken from the <classname>NormalAlgFlags</classname> enumeration;
      for normal hypersurfaces in a 4-manifold triangulation, they
      are taken from the <classname>HyperAlgFlags</classname> enumeration.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 17, which combines the
      3-dimensional <classname>NormalAlgFlags</classname> constants
      <literal>NS_VERTEX_VIA_REDUCED</literal> (1) and
      <literal>NS_TREE</literal> (16).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>embedded</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Deprecated.  This should be <literal>T</literal> if only
      embedded normal surfaces were enumerated to form this list,
      or <literal>F</literal> if all (embedded, immersed
      and singular) normal surfaces were enumerated.
     </para>
     <para>
      You should write this tag if you want your file to be read by
      &regina;&nbsp;4.93 or earlier.  Later versions of &regina; can
      also read it; however, they prefer the new
      <sgmltag>type</sgmltag> and <sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag> tags,
      which contain richer information.
      If both <sgmltag>type</sgmltag> and <sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag>
      are present then this <sgmltag>embedded</sgmltag> tag will be ignored.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>flavour</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The flavour of coordinate system used in the normal surface/hypersurface
      enumeration, expressed as a human-readable string.  Example
      flavours are <literal>Quad normal</literal> and
      <literal>Standard almost normal (tri-quad-oct)</literal>.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>flavourid</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The flavour of coordinate system used in the normal surface/hypersurface
      enumeration, expressed as an internal identification code.  This
      must be a non-negative integer that matches one of the
      coordinate system constants in &regina;'s calculation engine.
      For normal surfaces in a 3-manifold triangulation, this constant
      is taken from the <classname>NormalCoords</classname> enumeration;
      for normal hypersurfaces in a 4-manifold triangulation, it
      is taken from the <classname>HyperCoords</classname> enumeration.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 102, which is the
      3-dimensional constant <literal>NS_AN_QUAD_OCT</literal>
      that represents standard coordinates for octagonal almost normal
      surfaces.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies exactly which normal surfaces/hypersurfaces this list contains.
      In particular, this flag indicates whether the list contains all
      vertex surfaces, all fundamental surfaces, or some other
      customised list.  It also indicates whether the list is
      restricted to properly embedded surfaces (thereby replacing the
      obsolete <sgmltag>embedded</sgmltag> tag described above).
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be an integer, formed as a bitwise OR combination of
      constants from &regina;'s calculation engine.
      For normal surfaces in a 3-manifold triangulation, these constants
      are taken from the <classname>NormalListFlags</classname> enumeration;
      for normal hypersurfaces in a 4-manifold triangulation, they
      are taken from the <classname>HyperListFlags</classname> enumeration.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 5, which combines the
      3-dimensional <classname>NormalListFlags</classname> constants
      <literal>NS_EMBEDDED_ONLY</literal> (1) and
      <literal>NS_VERTEX</literal> (4).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
