<chapter id="compiling">
 <title>Compiling Regina Into a &cpp; Project</title>
 <para>
  &regina; offers its mathematical core as a &cpp; shared library.
  This means that your own &cpp; applications can make use of &regina;'s
  functionality, much like they might use any other mathematical library.
 </para>
 <para>
  &regina; is released under the &gnu; General Public License, which restricts
  how you may use it in other software.  These restrictions are to benefit
  and encourage mathematical software that is free to use, modify and
  redistribute.  For further information, please read the
  <link linkend="license">license details</link> or
  write to the authors if you have any specific questions.
 </para>
 <sect1 id="compiling-devfiles">
  <title>Installing the Development Files</title>
  <para>
   To build &regina; into your own projects, you must install
   &regina;'s <firstterm>development files</firstterm>;
   that is, the &cpp; headers and development libraries.
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
   <listitem><para>
    If you downloaded an &rpm;-based &linux; package (e.g., for
    &fedora;, &mandriva; or &suse;), you should already have the
    development files installed.
    Check that the headers are present in
    <filename>/usr/include/regina/</filename>.
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    If you downloaded a &debian;-based &linux; package (e.g., for
    &debian; or &ubuntu;), you will need to install the separate package
    <literal>regina-normal-dev</literal>.
    Check that the headers are present in
    <filename>/usr/include/regina-normal/</filename>.
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    If you built &regina; yourself, you should already have the &cpp; headers
    and development libraries installed.
    Check that the headers are present in
    <filename>/usr/local/include/regina/</filename> (or wherever you chose to
    install &regina;).
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    If you use &windows; or if you downloaded the
    drag-and-drop app bundle on &macosx;, the development files are not
    available.
    This is because it is too difficult at present to ensure that your
    development environment is compatible.
   </para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
   &regina; uses some other libraries in turn, and you will need the
   development files for these libraries also.  You should install these
   through ready-made packages if at all possible: they are available
   in every major &linux; distribution.  The extra libraries you will
   need are:
   <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><acronym>GNOME</acronym> &xml; library
      (<firstterm>libxml2</firstterm>)</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>libxml2-dev</literal>,
      <literal>lib64xml2-devel</literal> or
      <literal>libxml2-devel</literal>.
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term>&gnu; multiprecision arithmetic libraries for &ccpp;
      (<firstterm>libgmp</firstterm> and <firstterm>libgmpxx</firstterm>)</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>libgmp-dev</literal>,
      <literal>lib64gmp-devel</literal>,
      <literal>libgmp-devel</literal> or
      <literal>gmp-devel</literal>.
      Some distributions (such as &mandriva;)
      ship the &cpp; library separately in a package named
      <literal>gmpxx-devel</literal>.
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
   </variablelist>
  </para>
  <para>
   On some platforms you might also need development files for the
   zlib compression library (<firstterm>libz</firstterm>), and
   a lightweight database library (which will be one of
   Tokyo Cabinet (<firstterm>libtokyocabinet</firstterm>),
   QDBM (<firstterm>libqdbm</firstterm>) or the
   Lightning Memory-Mapped Database (<firstterm>liblmdb</firstterm>)).
   Which of these you need will depend on how your linker works and how
   &regina; was built.
   If you do need any of these, look for a package named
   <literal>zlib1g-dev</literal>,
   <literal>zlib1-devel</literal> or
   <literal>zlib-devel</literal>,
   and an appropriate option from
   <literal>libtokyocabinet-dev</literal>,
   <literal>libtokyocabinet-devel</literal>,
   <literal>tokyocabinet-devel</literal>,
   <literal>libqdbm-dev</literal>,
   <literal>qdbm-devel</literal>,
   <literal>liblmdb-dev</literal>,
   <literal>liblmdb-devel</literal> or
   <literal>lmdb-devel</literal>.
  </para>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="compiling-flags">
  <title>Compiler and Linker Flags</title>
  <para>
   When you compile your own &cpp; code that uses &regina;'s calculation
   engine, you will need to pass some extra flags to the compiler.
   There are two ways to do this: a simple way using a Makefile, and a more
   complex but more flexible way that extracts &regina;'s compiler and linker
   flags and passes them through to &gcc;.
  </para>

  <sect2>
   <title>Using a Makefile</title>

   <para>
    You can use the
    <link linkend="man-regina-helper"><command>regina-helper</command></link>
    tool to create a Makefile.
    This Makefile is suitable for compiling small programs that are
    entirely contained in a single &cpp; source file.
   </para>
<screen>
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>regina-helper makefile</userinput>
    Preparing Makefile...
    <prompt>example$ <userinput>ls</userinput></prompt>
    Makefile
    <prompt>example$</prompt>
</screen>
   <para>
    If you have a &cpp; source file named <filename>mycode.cc</filename>
    (for example), you can put it in the same directory as the Makefile
    and compile it by typing <userinput>make mycode</userinput>.
    The Makefile will ensure that the compiler receives all of the
    necessary flags for building your program against &regina;.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2>
   <title>Passing Flags to &gcc;</title>

   <para>
    &regina; also ships with a utility
    <link linkend="man-regina-engine-config"><command>regina-engine-config</command></link>,
    which will give you the necessary flags explicitly.
    To find the compiler and linker flags,
    run <userinput>regina-engine-config --cflags</userinput> and
    <userinput>regina-engine-config --libs</userinput> respectively.
   </para>
<screen>
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>regina-engine-config --cflags</userinput>
    -I/usr/include/regina-normal -I/usr/include -I/usr/include/libxml2
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>regina-engine-config --libs</userinput>
    -L/usr/lib -lregina-engine /usr/lib/libxml2.so /usr/lib/libgmp.so /usr/lib/libgmpxx.so /usr/lib/libz.so -lpthread
    <prompt>example$</prompt>
</screen>
   <para>
    If your code is a single &cpp; source file, you can compile and
    link a final executable in a single step:
   </para>
<screen>
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>g++ mycode.cc `regina-engine-config --cflags --libs`</userinput>
    <prompt>example$</prompt>
</screen>
   <para>
    If your code is spread across multiple source files, you should set up your
    build system so that it fetches the compiler and linker flags from
    <command>regina-engine-config</command>.
   </para>
   <para>
    Note that compiler and linker flags will differ from system to system.
    You should always use <command>regina-engine-config</command> to find out
    what they are, and not just copy the flags that appear in
    the examples above.
   </para>
   <tip><para>
    The compiler and linker flags that <command>regina-engine-config</command>
    outputs are tailored to the &gnu; &cpp; compiler
    (<application>g++</application>) and <application>Clang</application>.
    If you use a different
    compiler, you might need to adjust your flags accordingly.
   </para></tip>
  </sect2>
 </sect1>
 <sect1 id="compiling-apidocs">
 <title>&api; Documentation</title>
  <para>
   You can access full &api; documentation by selecting
   <menuchoice>
    <guimenu>Help</guimenu>
    <guimenuitem>Python &api; Reference</guimenuitem>
   </menuchoice>
   from the menu.  This describes in detail the &cpp; objects, classes and
   methods that &regina; makes available.
   You can also read this &api; documentation online at &regenginedocsurlbase;.
  </para>
  <para>
   Don't be worried because the menu says &ldquo;&python; Reference&rdquo;.
   The &api; documentation is really a &cpp; reference:
   &python; users are simply granted access to the &cpp; library through
   an extra layer of &python; bindings.
  </para>
 </sect1>
</chapter>

