
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-filterprop">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>filterprop</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>filterprop</refname>
  <refpurpose>A surface filter that uses basic properties</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
filterprop ::= (&xml-tag;*,
                &packetsyn1;
                &packetsyn2;
                &packetsyn3;
                &packetsyn4;
                &packetsyn5;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>compact</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>euler</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>orbl</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>realbdry</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     &packetattrlist2col;
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltaddedver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   This represents a <emphasis>property filter packet</emphasis>,
   one of the many types of packet that together form the
   <emphasis>packet tree</emphasis> that a user sees when they open a
   &regina; data file, and also one of the different types of filter
   that users can create to refine a set of normal surfaces.
  </para>
  <para>
   A <emphasis>property filter</emphasis>
   filters normal surfaces by examining basic topological properties
   such as orientability and Euler characteristic.
  </para>
  <para>
   The specific constraints imposed by this filter are stored in the
   optional attributes
   <sgmltag>compact</sgmltag>, <sgmltag>euler</sgmltag>,
   <sgmltag>orbl</sgmltag> and <sgmltag>realbdry</sgmltag>.
   If this filter has several such attributes, a surface must satisfy
   all of the corresponding constraints in order to be accepted by this filter.
   (These attributes replace the deprecated
   &xml-compact-filter;, &xml-euler-filter;,
   &xml-orbl-filter; and &xml-realbdry-filter; elements, which were
   used with &xml-filter; in older versions of &regina;.)
  </para>
  &packetchilddesc;

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   &packetparents;
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>filtercomb</sgmltag> has no children that are
    specific to property filters.
   </para>
   &packetchildren;
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <para>
   The following attributes are specific to combination filters:
  </para>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>compact</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Constrains the compactness of a surface.
      The following values are allowed:
      <itemizedlist>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>TF</literal> signifies that the surface may be either
        compact or non-compact, i.e., no constraint is imposed.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>T-</literal> signifies that the surface must be
        compact.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>-F</literal> signifies that the surface must be
        non-compact.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>--</literal> signifies that the surface must be neither
        compact nor non-compact, i.e., no surfaces are accepted.
       </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
     </para>
     <para>
      This constraint is optional; if not specified, it defaults to
      <literal>TF</literal> (i.e., there is no constraint on compactness).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>euler</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Constrains the Euler characteristic of a surface.
      This attribute holds a comma-separated list of integers.
      A surface will satisfy this constraint if its Euler characteristic
      belongs to the list.
     </para>
     <para>
      The list of integers must not contain any whitespace.
     </para>
     <para>
      This constraint is optional; if it is not specified or if the list is
      empty, then all Euler characteristics are allowed (i.e., there is
      no constraint on Euler characteristic).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>orbl</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Constrains the orientability of a surface.
      The following values are allowed:
      <itemizedlist>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>TF</literal> signifies that the surface may be either
        orientable or non-orientable, i.e., no constraint is imposed.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>T-</literal> signifies that the surface must be
        orientable.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>-F</literal> signifies that the surface must be
        non-orientable.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>--</literal> signifies that the surface must be neither
        orientable nor non-orientable, i.e., no surfaces are accepted.
       </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
     </para>
     <para>
      This constraint is optional; if not specified, it defaults to
      <literal>TF</literal> (i.e., there is no constraint on orientability).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>realbdry</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Constrains the boundary of a surface.
      The following values are allowed:
      <itemizedlist>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>TF</literal> signifies that the surface may either
        have real boundary or may not, i.e., no constraint is imposed.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>T-</literal> signifies that the surface must have real
        boundary.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>-F</literal> signifies that the surface must not have
        real boundary.
       </para></listitem>
       <listitem><para>
        <literal>--</literal> signifies that the surface must neither
        have real boundary nor not have real boundary, i.e., no surfaces
        are accepted.
       </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
     </para>
     <para>
      This constraint is optional; if not specified, it defaults to
      <literal>TF</literal> (i.e., there is no constraint on the boundary).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
  &packetattrdesc;
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a filter that accepts discs
   and annuli.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;filterprop orbl="T-" compact="T-" realbdry="T-" euler="0,1"/&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
