
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-simplex">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>simplex</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>simplex</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single top-dimensional simplex in a
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable>-dimensional triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
simplex ::= (#PCDATA)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>lock</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-simplex; element stores a single top-dimensional simplex in a
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable>-dimensional triangulation, along with its
   associated facet gluings.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, this element is now used by all of the
   dimensions that &regina; supports
   (2&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;15).
  </para>
  <para>
   The character data of this &xml; element should be a
   whitespace-separated list of <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;+&nbsp;1
   integer pairs, representing the gluings of facets
   0, 1, &hellip;, <replaceable>dim</replaceable> of this simplex.  Note that
   facet&nbsp; <replaceable>i</replaceable> is always opposite
   vertex&nbsp;<replaceable>i</replaceable> in a top-dimensional simplex.
  </para>
  <para>
   For each pair, the first integer represents the other top-dimensional
   simplex to which the facet is glued (recall that simplices in a triangulation
   are numbered 0, 1, 2, etc.).  The second integer represents the
   permutation of vertices from this simplex to the other simplex
   describing precisely how this gluing takes place.  This permutation
   will take the current facet number of this simplex to the corresponding
   facet number of the adjacent simplex, and the other
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable> vertex numbers of this simplex
   to the corresponding <replaceable>dim</replaceable> vertex numbers on
   the adjacent simplex to which they are identified by this gluing.
  </para>
  <para>
   There are two ways in which &regina; can encode permutations as integers:
   <emphasis>indices</emphasis> into the symmetric group
   S<subscript><replaceable>dim</replaceable>+1</subscript>, and
   <emphasis>image packs</emphasis>.  Which of these methods is used
   is specified by the <sgmltag>perm</sgmltag> attribute of the
   enclosing &xml-tri; element.  If no method is specified (e.g., if
   this is an older second-generation data file), then &regina; will
   assume indices for dimension&nbsp;2, and image packs for
   dimensions&nbsp;<replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;&ge;&nbsp;3
   (following the behaviour of the second-generation file format).
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
   <listitem><para>
    An <emphasis>index</emphasis> encodes a permutation as an integer
    <replaceable>i</replaceable> in the range
    0&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>i</replaceable>&nbsp;&lt;&nbsp;(<replaceable>dim</replaceable>+1)!.
    This integer is the index of the permutation into the symmetric
    group S<subscript><replaceable>dim</replaceable>+1</subscript>.
    These indices list the permutations in &ldquo;almost
    lexicographical&rdquo; order; the exception is that some pairs
    (2<replaceable>i</replaceable>, 2<replaceable>i</replaceable>+1) are
    swapped to ensure that even indices correspond to even permutations.
   </para><para>
    You can access these indices from within &regina; using the functions
    <code>Perm&lt;dim+1&gt;::SnIndex()</code> and
    <code>Perm&lt;dim+1&gt;::Sn[...]</code>.
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    An <emphasis>image pack</emphasis> encodes a permutation as follows.
    If the permutation maps 0, 1, &hellip;, <replaceable>dim</replaceable> to
    <replaceable>a0</replaceable>, <replaceable>a1</replaceable>, &hellip;,
    <replaceable>aDim</replaceable> respectively (where
    <replaceable>a0</replaceable>, <replaceable>a1</replaceable>, &hellip;,
    <replaceable>aDim</replaceable> are 0, 1, &hellip;, <replaceable>dim</replaceable>
    in some order), then the corresponding integer is
    (<replaceable>a0</replaceable> +
    <replaceable>B</replaceable>&nbsp;<replaceable>a1</replaceable> +
    <replaceable>B</replaceable><superscript>2</superscript>&nbsp;<replaceable>a2</replaceable> +
    &hellip; +
    <replaceable>B</replaceable><superscript><replaceable>dim</replaceable></superscript>&nbsp;<replaceable>aDim</replaceable>).
    Here the &ldquo;base&rdquo; <replaceable>B</replaceable> is
    <replaceable>B</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;4 for dimension
    <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;3,
    <replaceable>B</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;8 for dimensions
    4&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;7, and
    <replaceable>B</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;16 for dimensions
    8&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;15.
    As an example, the identity permutation for dimension
    <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;8 which maps
    (0,1,&hellip;,8) to
    (0,1,&hellip;,8) is represented by the integer
    (0 + 1&times;16 + 2&times;256 + &hellip; + 8&times;4294967296),
    which is 36344967696.
   </para><para>
    You can access these indices from within &regina; using the functions
    <code>Perm&lt;dim+1&gt;::imagePack()</code> and
    <code>Perm&lt;dim+1&gt;::fromImagePack(...)</code>.
   </para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
   If a facet is a boundary facet (i.e., it is not glued to anything), the
   two corresponding integers stored in the &xml; character data should
   be -1 and -1.
  </para>
  <warning><para>
   For dimensions <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;2..7,
   permutations are represented by 32-bit integers.
   In contrast, for dimensions
   <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;=&nbsp;8..15,
   permutations are represented by 64-bit integers.
   If you are writing code that reads &regina; data files, you may need
   to use a large integer type
   (such as <literal>long&nbsp;long</literal> in &cpp;) accordingly.
  </para></warning>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>simplex</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-tri;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    Element <sgmltag>simplex</sgmltag> has no children.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>desc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable description of the role that this top-dimensional
      simplex plays in the overall triangulation.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>lock</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A hexadecimal bitmask indicating whether this top-dimensional simplex
      and/or any of its facets are locked.  Essentially, locking a simplex or
      facet means that the simplex or facet must not change; see &regina;'s
      <acronym>API</acronym> documentation for full details.
     </para>
     <para>
      This bitmask must contain
      <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;+&nbsp;2 bits;
      here we number the bits so that the 0th bit is least significant.
      Bit <replaceable>k</replaceable> should be set if and only if
      facet <replaceable>k</replaceable> of this simplex is locked,
      for 0&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>k</replaceable>&nbsp;&le;&nbsp;<replaceable>dim</replaceable>.
      Bit <replaceable>dim</replaceable>&nbsp;+&nbsp;1 should be set
      if and only if this simplex itself is locked.
     </para>
     <para>
      If two top-dimensional simplices are glued together, then the
      corresponding facet locks must be consistent (i.e., the two facets
      that are joined must either be both locked or both unlocked).
     </para>
     <para>
      If this attribute is missing, then the bitmask will be treated as 0
      (i.e., the simplex and all of its facets are unlocked).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents simplex number 0 in a
   6-dimensional triangulation, using image packs to represent permutations.
   Facet 0 of this simplex is glued to facet 6 of simplex number 1,
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0,1,2,3,4,5,6) to (6,0,1,2,3,4,5).
   Facet 6 of this simplex is glued to facet 0 of simplex number 1,
   with a gluing permutation that maps (0,1,2,3,4,5,6) to (1,2,3,4,5,6,0).
   The remaining facets 1,&hellip;,5 of this simplex are all boundary facets.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;simplex&gt; 1 14038087 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 2054353 &lt;/simplex&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
