
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-packet-link">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>packet (link)</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>packet (link)</refname>
  <refpurpose>Replaced by &xml-link;</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
packet ::= (&xml-crossings;, &xml-connections;, &xml-components;,
            &xml-tag;*, &xml-packet;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      See the general &xml-packet; element documentation.
     </entry></row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltdepver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   In &regina;&nbsp;6.0.1 and earlier, the &xml-packet; element was used
   to store every packet in the entire packet tree that makes up a
   &regina; data file.
   This page describes how the &xml-packet; element was structured when
   storing a knot/link packet.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, each packet type has its own &xml; element;
   in particular, knot/link packets are now stored using the
   &xml-link; element.
  </para>
  <para>
   A <emphasis>knot/link</emphasis>
   packet stores the diagram of an oriented link in 3-dimensional space.
  </para>
  <para>
   The number of crossings in the diagram and the signs of these
   crossings are stored in the child &xml-crossings; element,
   and the connections between these crossings are stored in the child
   &xml-connections; element.
   The child &xml-components; element stores a starting point for each
   component of the link.
  </para>
  <para>
   The roles played by the child &xml-tag; and &xml-packet; elements are
   described in the general &xml-packet; element documentation.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>packet</sgmltag> for
    a knot/link packet:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet;</member>
     <member>&xml-reginadata;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>packet</sgmltag> for
    a knot/link packet:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-components;</member>
     <member>&xml-connections;</member>
     <member>&xml-crossings;</member>
     <member>&xml-packet;</member>
     <member>&xml-tag;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents the Whitehead link.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;packet label=&quot;Whitehead link&quot; type=&quot;Link&quot; typeid=&quot;17&quot; parent=&quot;&quot;&gt;
&lt;crossings size=&quot;5&quot;&gt;
- - + + -
&lt;/crossings&gt;
&lt;connections&gt;
_1 ^1
_2 ^4
_4 ^3
_0 ^2
_3 ^0
&lt;/connections&gt;
&lt;components size=&quot;2&quot;&gt;
^0 _0
&lt;/components&gt;
&lt;/packet&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
