
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-filter-properties">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>filter (properties)</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>filter (properties)</refname>
  <refpurpose>Replaced by &xml-filterprop;</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
filter ::= (&xml-compact-filter;?, &xml-euler-filter;?,
            &xml-orbl-filter;?, &xml-realbdry-filter;?)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      See the general &xml-filter; element documentation.
     </entry></row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltdepver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   In &regina;&nbsp;6.0.1 and earlier, the &xml-filter; element was used
   to store different types of normal surface filters, and was held
   within an enclosing &xml-packet-surfacefilter; element.
   This page describes how the &xml-filter; element was structured when
   storing a property filter.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, each filter type now has its own &xml; element,
   which also serves as the &xml; element for the filter packet.
   In particular, property filters are now stored using the
   &xml-filterprop; element.
  </para>
  <para>
   A <emphasis>property filter</emphasis>
   filters normal surfaces by examining basic topological properties
   such as orientability and Euler characteristic.
  </para>
  <para>
   The specific constraints imposed by this filter
   are specified by its child &xml; elements.  If this filter has
   several child elements, a surface must satisfy all of the
   corresponding constraints in order to be accepted by this filter.
  </para>
  <para>
   More information about surface filters can be found in the general
   &xml-filter; element documentation.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>filter</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-packet-surfacefilter;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>filter</sgmltag> for a
    filter by basic properties:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-compact-filter;</member>
     <member>&xml-euler-filter;</member>
     <member>&xml-orbl-filter;</member>
     <member>&xml-realbdry-filter;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
