
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-hypersurface">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>hypersurface</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>hypersurface</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single normal hypersurface in a 4-manifold triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <colspec colname="c3"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c3">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c3">
<synopsis>
hypersurface ::= (#PCDATA,
             &xml-compact-surface;?, &xml-realbdry-surface;?)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c3">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Version</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>enc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
      <entry>&attraddedver;7.0</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
      <entry></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>name</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
      <entry></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-hypersurface; element stores a single normal hypersurface in a
   4-manifold triangulation.
  </para>
  <para>
   A normal hypersurface in a <replaceable>P</replaceable>-pentachoron
   triangulation is traditionally represented by a vector of integers, whose
   length depends upon the specific vector encoding being used.  For instance,
   a vector encoded in standard tetrahedron-prism coordinates will have length
   15<replaceable>P</replaceable>, and a vector encoded in prism coordinates
   will have length 10<replaceable>P</replaceable>.
  </para>
  <warning>
   <para>
    Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, the specific vector encoding being used is now
    explicitly specified in the <sgmltag>enc</sgmltag> attribute.
    This might or might not be deducible from the coordinate system
    specified in the parent &xml-hypersurfaces;.
    The parent list's coordinate system should only be used as a fallback if
    the <sgmltag>enc</sgmltag> attribute is not present.
   </para>
  </warning>
  <para>
   The normal hypersurface vector is stored as the character data of this
   &xml; element as follows.
   Since a normal hypersurface vector will generally contain many zeroes,
   only the non-zero elements are listed.  The character data should
   thus consist of a whitespace-separated sequence of integer pairs.
   Each integer pair represents a non-zero coordinate in the vector; the
   first element of the pair identifies which coordinate is being
   described (coordinates are numbered 0, 1, 2, ...) and the second element
   of the pair is the actual value at this coordinate.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>hypersurface</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-hypersurfaces;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>hypersurface</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-compact-surface;</member>
     <member>&xml-realbdry-surface;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>enc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The specific vector encoding used to represent this normal hypersurface.
      This will be given as an opaque integer; it is not meant to be
      interpreted manually, but instead should be passed to Regina's
      <function>HyperEncoding::fromIntValue()</function> function.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The length of the underlying normal hypersurface vector.
      This depends upon both the underlying triangulation and the
      specific vector encoding being used.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>name</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable name given to this hypersurface.  Hypersurface names
      need not be distinct and exist merely for the convenience of the user.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a normal hypersurface in a
   4-pentachoron triangulation.  The normal hypersurface vector is:
   <programlisting>
(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)</programlisting>
  </para>
  <para>
   The child elements of this normal surface indicate that the
   surface is compact and has no real boundary.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;hypersurface enc=&quot;287&quot; len="60"&gt; 10 1 25 1 36 1 51 1
    &lt;realbdry value="F"/&gt;
    &lt;compact value="T"/&gt; &lt;/hypersurface&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
