
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-surface">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>surface</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>surface</refname>
  <refpurpose>A single normal surface in a 3-manifold triangulation</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <colspec colname="c3"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c3">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c3">
<synopsis>
surface ::= (#PCDATA,
             &xml-compact-surface;?,
             &xml-connected;?, &xml-euler-surface;?,
             &xml-orbl-surface;?, &xml-realbdry-surface;?,
             &xml-twosided;?)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c3">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Version</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>enc</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
      <entry>&attraddedver;7.0</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
      <entry></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>name</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type></entry>
      <entry></entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   A &xml-surface; element stores a single normal surface in a
   3-manifold triangulation.
  </para>
  <para>
   A normal surface in a <replaceable>T</replaceable>-tetrahedron
   triangulation is traditionally represented by a vector of integers, whose
   length depends upon the specific vector encoding being used (which in
   turn depends upon the underlying coordinate system).  For instance,
   a vector encoded in standard tri-quad coordinates will have length
   7<replaceable>T</replaceable>, and a vector encoded in quad coordinates
   will have length 3<replaceable>T</replaceable>.
  </para>
  <warning>
   <para>
    Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, the specific vector encoding being used is now
    explicitly specified in the <sgmltag>enc</sgmltag> attribute.
    This might or might not be deducible from the coordinate system
    specified in the parent &xml-surfaces;.
    The parent list's coordinate system should only be used as a fallback if
    the <sgmltag>enc</sgmltag> attribute is not present.
   </para>
  </warning>
  <para>
   The normal surface vector is stored as the character data of this
   &xml; element as follows.
   Since a normal surface vector will generally contain many zeroes,
   only the non-zero elements are listed.  The character data should
   thus consist of a whitespace-separated sequence of integer pairs.
   Each integer pair represents a non-zero coordinate in the vector; the
   first element of the pair identifies which coordinate is being
   described (coordinates are numbered 0, 1, 2, ...) and the second element
   of the pair is the actual value at this coordinate.
  </para>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   <para>
    The following elements contain <sgmltag>surface</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-surfaces;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>surface</sgmltag>:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-compact-surface;</member>
     <member>&xml-connected;</member>
     <member>&xml-euler-surface;</member>
     <member>&xml-orbl-surface;</member>
     <member>&xml-realbdry-surface;</member>
     <member>&xml-twosided;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>enc</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The specific vector encoding used to represent this normal surface.
      This will be given as an opaque integer; it is not meant to be
      interpreted manually, but instead should be passed to Regina's
      <function>NormalEncoding::fromIntValue()</function> function.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>len</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      The length of the underlying normal surface vector.
      This depends upon both the underlying triangulation and the
      specific vector encoding being used.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>name</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      A human-readable name given to this surface.  Surface names need
      not be distinct and exist merely for the convenience of the user.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Example</title>
  <para>
   The following &xml; snippet represents a normal surface in a
   4-tetrahedron triangulation.  The normal surface vector is:
   <programlisting>
(0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 2, 0,
 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0,
 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0,
 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 2, 0)</programlisting>
  </para>
  <para>
   The child elements of this normal surface indicate that the
   surface has Euler characteristic -2 and real boundary, and is
   compact, connected, orientable and two-sided.
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;surface enc=&quot;279&quot; len=&quot;28&quot;&gt; 5 2 9 1 10 1 11 1 14 1 15 1 18 1 26 2
    &lt;euler value=&quot;-2&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;realbdry value=&quot;T&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;compact value=&quot;T&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;connected value=&quot;1&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;orbl value=&quot;1&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;twosided value=&quot;1&quot;/&gt; &lt;/surface&gt;
  </programlisting>
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
