
<!-- Regina data file format documentation.
     See ../regina.sgml for further details. -->

<refentry id="data-hypersurfaces">
 <refmeta>
  <refentrytitle>hypersurfaces</refentrytitle>
  <manvolnum>5reg</manvolnum>
 </refmeta>

 <refnamediv>
  <refname>hypersurfaces</refname>
  <refpurpose>A normal hypersurface list packet</refpurpose>
 </refnamediv>

 <refsynopsisdiv>
  <informaltable frame="all">
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1"/>
    <colspec colname="c2"/>
    <tbody>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Content Model</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
<synopsis>
hypersurfaces ::= (&xml-hypersurface;*,
                   &xml-tag;*,
                   &packetsyn1;
                   &packetsyn2;
                   &packetsyn3;
                   &packetsyn4;
                   &packetsyn5;*)</synopsis>
     </entry></row>
     <row><entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">
      <emphasis role="bold">Attributes</emphasis>
     </entry></row>
     <row>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Name</emphasis></entry>
      <entry><emphasis role="bold">Type</emphasis></entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>coords</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>tri</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>CDATA</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></entry>
      <entry><type>NUMBER</type> (required)</entry>
     </row>
     &packetattrlist2col;
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </informaltable>
  <para>&eltaddedver;7.0</para>
 </refsynopsisdiv>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
   This represents a <emphasis>normal hypersurface list packet</emphasis>,
   one of the many types of packet that together form the
   <emphasis>packet tree</emphasis> that a user sees when they open a
   &regina; data file.
  </para>
  <para>
   A normal hypersurface list stores a list of normal hypersurfaces in a
   particular 4-manifold triangulation.  This list will often contain the vertex
   hypersurfaces whose convex span is the set of all normal hypersurfaces in
   the triangulation that satisfy certain constraints, though
   other lists (such as fundamental hypersurfaces, or other customised lists)
   can be stored also.
  </para>
  <para>
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, a normal hypersurface list no longer needs to
   be a child packet of its underlying triangulation.
   Instead, the triangulation is denoted by the <sgmltag>tri</sgmltag>
   attribute.  This must be the ID of a 4-dimensional triangulation packet
   that appears <emphasis>before this list in the packet tree</emphasis>,
   with respect to a pre-order depth-first traversal
   (i.e., the triangulation must appear before this list in the &xml;
   data file).  The triangulation may be an anonymous packet (see &xml-anon;).
  </para>
  <para>
   The individual normal hypersurfaces in this list are contained in the
   child &xml-hypersurface; elements.
   Since &regina;&nbsp;7.0, the parameters of the normal hypersurface
   enumeration that created this list are stored in the attributes; there is no
   longer a child &xml-params; element.
  </para>
  &packetchilddesc;

  <refsect2>
   <title>Parents</title>
   &packetparents;
  </refsect2>

  <refsect2>
   <title>Children</title>
   <para>
    The following elements occur in <sgmltag>hypersurfaces</sgmltag>,
    and are specific to the normal hypersurface list packet type:
    <simplelist type="inline">
     <member>&xml-hypersurface;</member>
    </simplelist>.
   </para>
   &packetchildren;
  </refsect2>
 </refsect1>

 <refsect1>
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <para>
   The following attributes are specific to normal hypersurface lists:
  </para>
  <variablelist>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>algorithm</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies the algorithm that was used to enumerate these normal
      hypersurfaces.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be an integer, formed as a bitwise OR combination of
      constants from the <classname>HyperAlg</classname> enumeration
      in &regina;'s calculation engine.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 32, which is the constant
      <literal>HyperAlg::VertexDD</literal>, indicating that the double
      description method was used.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>coords</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies which coordinate system was used in the normal hypersurface
      enumeration.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be a non-negative integer that matches one of the
      constants from the <classname>HyperCoords</classname> enumeration
      in &regina;'s calculation engine.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 1, which is the
      constant <literal>HyperCoords::Prism</literal> that represents
      prism coordinates for normal hypersurfaces.
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>tri</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem><para>
     The ID of the triangulation in which these normal hypersurfaces live.
     This must match the <sgmltag>id</sgmltag> attribute of a
     4-dimensional triangulation that appears before this list in a
     pre-order depth-first traversal of the full packet tree.
    </para></listitem>
   </varlistentry>
   <varlistentry>
    <term><sgmltag>type</sgmltag></term>
    <listitem>
     <para>
      Specifies exactly which normal hypersurfaces this list contains.
      In particular, this flag indicates whether the list contains all
      vertex hypersurfaces, all fundamental hypersurfaces, or some other
      customised list.  It also indicates whether the list is
      restricted to properly embedded hypersurfaces.
     </para>
     <para>
      This must be an integer, formed as a bitwise OR combination of
      constants from the <classname>HyperList</classname> enumeration
      in &regina;'s calculation engine.
     </para>
     <para>
      An example of such an integer might be 5, which combines the constants
      <literal>HyperList::EmbeddedOnly</literal> (1) and
      <literal>HyperList::Vertex</literal> (4).
     </para>
    </listitem>
   </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
  &packetattrdesc;
 </refsect1>
</refentry>
