<appendix id="credits">
 <title>License and Acknowledgements</title>

 <sect1 id="licenses">
  <title>License Details</title>
  <para>
   &regina; &ndash; Software for 3-manifold topology and normal surface theory
  </para>
  <para>
   &copyrightnotice;
  </para>

  <sect2 id="licenses-citation">
  <title>Citation</title>
   <para>
    If you find &regina; useful in your research, please consider
    citing it as you would any other paper that you use.
    <link linkend="citing">See here</link> for a suggested form of reference.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="licenses-gpl">
   <title>Copying and Modification</title>
   <para>
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version&nbsp;2 of the License, or (at
    your option) any later version.
   </para>
   <para>
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
    General Public License for more details.
   </para>
   <para>
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
    02110-1301, USA.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="licenses-snappea">
   <title>&snappea; Kernel</title>
   <para>
    &regina; includes portions of the &snappea; kernel, which it uses for some
    geometric calculations.
    &snappea; was written by Jeff Weeks, and is now maintained by both
    Jeff Weeks and Nathan Dunfield.
    The SnapPeaKernel is distributed under the terms of the &gnu; General
    Public License, version&nbsp;2 or any later version, as published by the
    Free Software Foundation.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="licenses-orb">
   <title>Orb Kernel</title>
   <para>
    &regina; includes snippets of code from &orb;, for use in importing and
    exporting files in Orb / Casson format.  &orb; is based on &snappea;
    (see above) with additional code written by Damian Heard, who has also
    given permission for his code to be distributed under the terms of the
    &gnu; General Public License.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="licenses-python">
   <title>Python Icons</title>
   <para>
    The python icons are based on applications-python.svg as shipped with
    the humanity-icon-theme package in Ubuntu&nbsp;11.04.  The contents of this
    Ubuntu package are licensed under the
    &gnu; General Public License version&nbsp;2.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="licenses-oxygen">
   <title>Oxygen Icons</title>
   <para>
    The packet-view icons have been modified from the Oxygen icon set for
    &kde4;.
    The Oxygen icons are dual-licensed under the Creative Common
    Attribution-ShareAlike&nbsp;3.0 License or the GNU Library General Public
    License.
   </para>
  </sect2>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="acknowledgements">
  <title>Authors and Acknowledgements</title>
  <para>
   The primary developers of &regina; are:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Benjamin Burton
     <email>bab@debian.org</email></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Ryan Budney
     <email>rybu@uvic.ca</email></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>William Pettersson</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>

  <para>Additional code contributed by:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Matthias Goerner</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>David Letscher</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Jeff Weeks</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>Thanks also to:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Bernard Blackham</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Marc Culler</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Dominique Devriese</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Nathan Dunfield</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>William Jaco</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Craig Macintyre</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>J. Hyam Rubinstein</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Jonathan Shewchuk</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The American Institute of Mathematics</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Australian Research Council</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the
     Universe, Tokyo</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Oklahoma State University, USA</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Queensland Cyber Infrastructure Foundation</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>RMIT University, Australia</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The University of Melbourne, Australia</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The University of Queensland, Australia</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The University of Victoria, Canada</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Victorian Partnership for Advanced
     Computing</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>
 </sect1>
</appendix>
