<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<chapter id="angles">
 <title>Angle Structures</title>

 <para>
  An <firstterm>angle structure</firstterm> on a triangulation is a
  purely algebraic generalisation of a hyperbolic structure that contains
  some but not all
  of the properties required to produce a hyperbolic metric.  Angle
  structures were studied originally by Casson and then developed by
  Lackenby <xref linkend="bib-lackenby-taut"/>,
  <xref linkend="bib-lackenby-anglestruct"/> and
  Rivin <xref linkend="bib-rivin-structures"/>,
  <xref linkend="bib-rivin-combopt"/>.
 </para>
 <para>
  In an angle structure on a triangulation, each of the six edges
  of each tetrahedron is assigned an angle in such a way that the
  following conditions are satisfied.
  <itemizedlist>
   <listitem><para>
    Each angle must be between 0 and &twopi; inclusive;
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    Opposite edges in a tetrahedron must be assigned equal angles;
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    The six angles assigned for each tetrahedron must sum to &twopi;;
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    The sum of all angles around each non-boundary edge of the triangulation
    must sum to &twopi;.
   </para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
 </para>
 <para>
  Angle structures are represented here as vectors containing three
  elements per tetrahedron (corresponding to the three pairs of equal
  angles in each tetrahedron).
 </para>

 <note>
  <para>
   An angle structure list in the packet tree must be a
   child packet of the triangulation on which the structures are placed.
  </para>
  <para>
   Furthermore, since each angle structure is stored as a vector relative
   to the triangulation's tetrahedra, a triangulation cannot be changed
   once it has an angle structure list as a child.  If you wish to edit
   such a triangulation, try cloning the packet (excluding descendants so
   the angle structures are not cloned as well) and edit the clone instead.
  </para>
 </note>

 <sect1 id="angles-creation">
  <title>Creation</title>

  <para>
   A new list of angle structures can be created through the
   <menuchoice>
    <guimenu>Packet Tree</guimenu>
    <guimenuitem>New Angle Structure Solutions</guimenuitem>
   </menuchoice>
   menu item (or the corresponding toolbar button).
   Before the angle structures are created, you will be asked to specify
   the triangulation on which the structures are to be placed.
  </para>
  <para>
   Only <firstterm>vertex angle structures</firstterm> will be placed in
   the new list; all other angle structures can be formed as convex
   combinations of these vertex structures.
  </para>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="angles-analysis">
  <title>Analysis</title>

  <para>
   Various properties of an angle structure list and its
   individual angle structures can be seen
   in the angle structure list viewer.
  </para>

  <sect2 id="angles-viewlistprops">
   <title>List Properties</title>

   <para>
    Above the table of structures in the angle structure list viewer
    are displayed some basic properties of the angle structure list.
    These include:
    <itemizedlist>
     <listitem><para>
      a count of the total number of vertex structures contained within;
     </para></listitem>
     <listitem><para>
      whether or not the convex span of these vertex structures
      contains any strict and/or taut angle structures.  See the
      <link linkend="angles-viewstructureprops">individual
      structure properties</link> section below for details on what these
      terms mean.
     </para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="angles-viewstructurecoords">
   <title>Individual Angle Structures</title>

   <para>
    The angle structure list viewer contains a table of the
    individual angle structures that form this list.  Each
    structure is presented as a vector of angles.
   </para>
   <para>
    Each row of this table represents a single angle structure.
    The left few columns of the table contain various miscellaneous
    structure properties, described in the <link
    linkend="angles-viewstructureprops">individual structure
    properties</link> section below.
    The remaining columns contain the actual angles.
   </para>
   <para>
    The individual angle columns are labelled
    <literal>0:01/23</literal>, <literal>0:02/13</literal>,
    <literal>0:03/12</literal>, <literal>1:01/23</literal>,
    <literal>1:02/13</literal>, <literal>1:03/12</literal>,
    <literal>2:01/23</literal>, etc.  Coordinate
    <literal><replaceable>t</replaceable>:<replaceable>ab</replaceable>/<replaceable>cd</replaceable></literal>
    represents the angle assigned to the edge in tetrahedron
    <replaceable>t</replaceable> that joins tetrahedron vertices
    <replaceable>a</replaceable> and <replaceable>b</replaceable>, as
    well as the (opposite) edge that joins tetrahedron vertices
    <replaceable>c</replaceable> and <replaceable>d</replaceable>
    (<replaceable>a</replaceable>, <replaceable>b</replaceable>,
    <replaceable>c</replaceable> and <replaceable>d</replaceable>
    will always be 0, 1, 2 and 3 in some order).
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="angles-viewstructureprops">
   <title>Individual Structure Properties</title>

   <para>
    As described in the
    <link linkend="angles-viewstructurecoords">individual angles</link>
    section above, the angle structure list viewer contains a table of
    every vertex structure contained in this list.
   </para>
   <para>
    The left few columns of this table contain the following
    angle structure properties.
    <glosslist>
     <glossentry>
      <glossterm>Type</glossterm>
      <glossdef><para>
       If a structure is recognised as being of a particular type,
       that type will be listed in this column.  At most one such type
       will be displayed for any particular angle structure.
       The following types are currently recognised.
       <glosslist>
        <glossentry>
         <glossterm>Strict</glossterm>
         <glossdef><para>
          Indicates a strict angle structure (none of its angles are
          equal to 0 or &pi;).
         </para></glossdef>
        </glossentry>
        <glossentry>
         <glossterm>Taut</glossterm>
         <glossdef><para>
          Indicates a taut angle structure (all of its angles are
          equal to 0 or &pi;).
         </para></glossdef>
        </glossentry>
       </glosslist>
      </para></glossdef>
     </glossentry>
    </glosslist>
   </para>
  </sect2>
 </sect1>
</chapter>
