<chapter id="compiling">
 <title>Compiling Regina Into Your Projects</title>
 <para>
  &regina; offers its mathematical core as a &cpp; shared library.
  This means that your own &cpp; applications can make use of &regina;'s
  functionality, much like they might use any other mathematical library.
 </para>
 <para>
  &regina; is released under the &gnu; General Public License, which restricts
  how you may use it in other software.  These restrictions are to benefit
  and encourage mathematical software that is free to use, modify and
  redistribute.  For further information, please read the
  <link linkend="license">license details</link> or
  write to the authors if you have any specific questions.
 </para>
 <sect1 id="compiling-devfiles">
  <title>Installing the Development Files</title>
  <para>
   To build &regina; into your own projects, you must install
   &regina;'s <firstterm>development files</firstterm>;
   that is, the &cpp; headers and development libraries.
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
   <listitem><para>
    If you downloaded an &rpm;-based &linux; package (e.g., for
    &fedora;, &mandriva; or &suse;), you should already have the
    development files installed.
    Check that the headers are present in
    <filename>/usr/include/regina/</filename>.
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    If you downloaded a &debian;-based &linux; package (e.g., for
    &debian; or &ubuntu;), you will need to install the separate package
    <literal>regina-normal-dev</literal>.
    Check that the headers are present in
    <filename>/usr/include/regina-normal/</filename>.
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    If you built &regina; yourself, you should already have the &cpp; headers
    and development libraries installed.
    Check that the headers are present in
    <filename>/usr/local/include/regina/</filename> (or wherever you chose to
    install &regina;).
   </para></listitem>
   <listitem><para>
    If you use &windows; or if you downloaded the
    drag-and-drop app bundle on &macosx;, the development files are not
    available.
    This is because it is too difficult at present to ensure that your
    development environment is compatible.
   </para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
   &regina; uses some other libraries in turn, and you will need the
   development files for these libraries also.  You should install these
   through ready-made packages if at all possible: they are available
   in every major &linux; distribution.  The extra libraries you will
   need are:
   <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
     <term>zlib compression library
      (<firstterm>libz</firstterm>)</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>zlib1g-dev</literal>,
      <literal>zlib1-devel</literal> or
      <literal>zlib-devel</literal>.
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term>&gnu; multiprecision arithmetic libraries for &ccpp;
      (<firstterm>libgmp</firstterm> and <firstterm>libgmpxx</firstterm>)</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>libgmp-dev</literal>,
      <literal>lib64gmp-devel</literal>,
      <literal>libgmp-devel</literal> or
      <literal>gmp-devel</literal>.
      Some distributions (such as &mandriva;)
      ship the &cpp; library separately in a package named
      <literal>gmpxx-devel</literal>.
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><acronym>GNOME</acronym> &xml; library
      (<firstterm>libxml2</firstterm>)</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>libxml2-dev</literal>,
      <literal>lib64xml2-devel</literal> or
      <literal>libxml2-devel</literal>.
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term>Boost headers</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>libboost-dev</literal> or
      <literal>boost-devel</literal>.
      You only need the headers (there is no need for pre-built libraries
      such as Boost.Regex or Boost.Python).
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term>Tokyo Cabinet library
      (<firstterm>libtokyocabinet</firstterm>)</term>
     <listitem><para>
      Look for a package named
      <literal>libtokyocabinet-dev</literal>,
      <literal>libtokyocabinet-devel</literal> or
      <literal>tokyocabinet-devel</literal>.
     </para></listitem>
    </varlistentry>
   </variablelist>
  </para>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="compiling-flags">
  <title>Compiler and Linker Flags</title>
  <para>
   &regina; comes with a small program called
   <command>regina-engine-config</command>, which tells you how to
   compile &regina; into your own &cpp; projects.
  </para>
  <para>
   When you <emphasis>compile</emphasis> your own &cpp; code, you will need
   to pass some extra flags to the compiler.  To find these extra
   compiler flags, run <userinput>regina-engine-config --cflags</userinput>.
  </para>
<screen>
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>regina-engine-config --cflags</userinput>
    -I/usr/include/regina-normal -I/usr/include -I/usr/include/libxml2
    <prompt>example$</prompt>
</screen>
  <para>
   When you <emphasis>link</emphasis> your code into a final executable,
   you will also need to pass extra flags to the linker.  To find these
   extra linker flags, run <userinput>regina-engine-config --libs</userinput>.
  </para>
<screen>
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>regina-engine-config --libs</userinput>
    -L/usr/lib -lregina-engine /usr/lib/libxml2.so /usr/lib/libgmp.so /usr/lib/libgmpxx.so /usr/lib/libz.so -lpthread
    <prompt>example$</prompt>
</screen>
  <para>
   If your code is a single &cpp; source file, you can compile and
   link a final executable in one simple step:
  </para>
<screen>
    <prompt>example$</prompt> <userinput>g++ mycode.cc `regina-engine-config --cflags --libs`</userinput>
    <prompt>example$</prompt>
</screen>
  <para>
   Compiler and linker flags will differ from system to system.  You
   should always use <command>regina-engine-config</command> to find out
   what they are, and not just copy the flags that appear in
   the examples above.
  </para>
  <para>
   Note that these compiler and linker flags are tailored to the
   &gnu; &cpp; compiler
   (<application>g++</application>).  If you use a different
   compiler, you might need to adjust your flags accordingly.
  </para>
 </sect1>
 <sect1 id="compiling-apidocs">
 <title>&api; Documentation</title>
  <para>
   You can access full &api; documentation by selecting
   <menuchoice>
    <guimenu>Help</guimenu>
    <guimenuitem>Python &api; Reference</guimenuitem>
   </menuchoice>
   from the menu.  This describes in detail the &cpp; objects, classes and
   methods that &regina; makes available.
   You can also read this &api; documentation online at &regenginedocsurlbase;.
  </para>
  <para>
   Don't be worried because the menu says &ldquo;&python; Reference&rdquo;.
   The &api; documentation is really a &cpp; reference:
   &python; users are simply granted access to the &cpp; library through
   an extra layer of &python; bindings.
  </para>
 </sect1>
</chapter>

