<appendix id="credits">
 <title>Authors and License</title>

 <sect1 id="acknowledgements">
  <title>Acknowledgements</title>
  <para>
   The primary developers of &regina; are:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Benjamin Burton
     <email>bab@maths.uq.edu.au</email></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Ryan Budney
     <email>rybu@uvic.ca</email></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>William Pettersson
     <email>william.pettersson@gmail.com</email></para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>

  <para>Additional code was contributed by:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Matthias Goerner</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>David Letscher</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Winfried Bruns, Bogdan Ichim and Christof Soeger
     (for the &normaliz; library)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Marc Culler, Nathan Dunfield and Jeff Weeks
     (for code from &snappea; and &snappy;)</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>Thanks also to the help and expertise of:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Bernard Blackham</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Marc Culler</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Dominique Devriese</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Nathan Dunfield</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>William Jaco</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Craig Macintyre</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Melih &Ouml;zlen</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>J. Hyam Rubinstein</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Saul Schleimer</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Jonathan Shewchuk</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Stephan Tillmann</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>The following institutions have supported the development of &regina;:
   <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>The American Institute of Mathematics</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Australia-India Strategic Research Fund
     (grant AISRF06660)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Australian Research Council (grants DP0208490,
     DP1094516, DP110101104, DP140104246, DP150104108)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Indian Institute of Science</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Institute for Computational and Experimental
     Research in Mathematics, Brown University</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the
     Universe, Tokyo</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Oklahoma State University, USA</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Queensland Cyber Infrastructure Foundation</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>RMIT University, Australia</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The University of Melbourne, Australia</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The University of Queensland, Australia</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The University of Victoria, Canada</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>The Victorian Partnership for Advanced
     Computing</para></listitem>
   </itemizedlist>
  </para>
 </sect1>

 <sect1 id="license">
  <title>License Details</title>
  <para>
   &regina; &ndash; Software for low-dimensional topology
  </para>
  <para>
   &copyrightnotice;
  </para>

  <sect2 id="license-citation">
  <title>Citation</title>
   <para>
    If you find &regina; useful in your research, please consider
    citing it as you would any other paper that you use.
    <link linkend="citing">See here</link> for a suggested form of reference.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="license-gpl">
   <title>Copying and Modification</title>
   <para>
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version&nbsp;2 of the License, or (at
    your option) any later version.
   </para>
   <para>
    Some of this code comes with additional permissions; see the section
    below regarding online distribution.
   </para>
   <para>
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
    General Public License for more details.
   </para>
   <para>
    A full copy of the GNU General Public License
    should be <ulink url="gpl-license.html">included here</ulink>;
    if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
    02110-1301, USA.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="license-online">
   <para>
    Regina's own source code comes with the following permissions in
    addition to the GNU General Public License:
   </para>
   <para>
    As an exception, when this program is distributed through (i) the
    App Store by Apple Inc.; (ii) the Mac App Store by Apple Inc.; or
    (iii) Google Play by Google Inc., then that store may impose any
    digital rights management, device limits and/or redistribution
    restrictions that are required by its terms of service.
   </para>
   <para>
    Some third-party libraries included in Regina are not granted this
    exception, and must be removed from any build that is distributed on
    stores that cannot comply with the GNU General Public License (such as
    Apple's App Store).  See the third-party licenses below for details.
   </para>
  </sect2>

  <sect2 id="license-external">
   <title>External Software</title>
   <para>
    Regina makes use of external software for some specialised tasks.
    The corresponding license details are included below.
   </para>
   <sect3 id="license-snappea">
    <title>&snappea; and &snappy;</title>
    <para>
     &regina; includes portions of the &snappea; kernel and its successor
     &snappy;, which it uses for some geometric calculations.
     The &snappea; kernel was originally written by Jeff Weeks.
     &snappy;, where this kernel is now maintained, is primarily developed by
     Marc Culler and Nathan Dunfield, with contributions from many people.
     &snappy; and the corresponding &snappea; kernel are distributed
     under the terms of the &gnu; General Public License, version&nbsp;2
     or any later version, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
    </para>
   </sect3>
 
   <sect3 id="license-normaliz">
    <title>&normaliz; Library</title>
    <para>
     &regina; includes a copy of &libnormaliz;, which it uses to help with the
     enumeration of fundamental normal surfaces.  &normaliz; was written
     by Winfried Bruns, Bogdan Ichim and Christof Soeger.  It is distributed
     under the terms of the &gnu; General Public License as published by the
     Free Software Foundation, either version&nbsp;3 of the License, or
     (at your option) any later version.
    </para>
   </sect3>
 
   <sect3 id="license-orb">
    <title>Orb Kernel</title>
    <para>
     &regina; includes snippets of code from &orb;, for use in importing and
     exporting files in Orb / Casson format.  &orb; is based on &snappea;
     (see above) with additional code written by Damian Heard, who has also
     given permission for his code to be distributed under the terms of the
     &gnu; General Public License.
    </para>
   </sect3>
 
   <sect3 id="license-highlight">
    <title>Syntax Highlighting</title>
    <para>
     &regina;'s graphical user interfaces incorporate a modified version of the
     &kde; syntax-highlighting framework, which they use for highlighting
     &python; scripts.  This framework is distributed under the &gnu;
     Library General Public License, version&nbsp;2 or any later version,
     as published by the Free Software Foundation.
    </para>
   </sect3>
 
   <sect3 id="license-icons">
    <title>Icons</title>
    <para>
     The Oxygen icons are dual-licensed under the Creative Common
     Attribution-ShareAlike&nbsp;3.0 License or the
     &gnu; Library General Public License.
     The python icons are based on applications-python.svg as shipped with the
     humanity-icon-theme package in Ubuntu&nbsp;11.04, the contents of which
     are licensed under the &gnu; General Public License version 2.
    </para>
   </sect3>
  </sect2>
 </sect1>

</appendix>
