<appendix id="manpages">
 <title>Command Line: Main Applications</title>

 <para>
  This reference chapter documents the command-line options for
  &regina;'s two main applications:
  <command>regina-gui</command> and <command>regina-python</command>.
 </para>
 <para>
  &regina; also ship with several other specialised command-line utilities,
  which are documented in the <link linkend="utils">following chapter</link>.
 </para>

 <!-- Graphical User Interface -->

 <refentry id="man-regina-gui">
  <refmeta>
   <refentrytitle>regina-gui</refentrytitle>
   <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </refmeta>

  <refnamediv>
   <refname>regina-gui</refname>
   <refpurpose>&regina;'s graphical user interface</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>

  <refsynopsisdiv>
   <cmdsynopsis>
    <command>regina-gui</command>
    <arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>file</replaceable></arg>
   </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>

  <refsect1>
   <title>Description</title>
   &regabstract;
   <para>
    This starts the full graphical user interface, and is the usual
    way of starting &regina;.  Any files passed on the command-line
    will be opened on startup.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>&macosx; Users</title>
   <para>
    If you downloaded a drag-and-drop app bundle, this is the
    program that runs when you open it.
    The executable itself is simply called <command>Regina</command>,
    not <command>regina-gui</command>.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>See Also</title>
   <para>
    <link linkend="man-regina-python">regina-python</link>.
   </para>
   <para>
    &regina; comes with a rich users' handbook, which you can access via
    &menuhandbook;
    in the menu.  You can also read the users' handbook online
    at &regmanhandbookurl;.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>Author</title>
   <para>
    &manpageack;
   </para>
  </refsect1>
 </refentry>

 <!-- Python Command-Line Interface -->

 <refentry id="man-regina-python">
  <refmeta>
   <refentrytitle>regina-python</refentrytitle>
   <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </refmeta>

  <refnamediv>
   <refname>regina-python</refname>
   <refpurpose>&regina;'s command-line &python; interface</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>

  <refsynopsisdiv>
   <cmdsynopsis>
    <command>regina-python</command>
    <group>
     <arg><option>-q, --quiet</option></arg>
     <arg><option>-v, --verbose</option></arg>
    </group>
    <arg><option>-n, --nolibs</option></arg>
    <arg><option>-a, --noautoimport</option></arg>
   </cmdsynopsis>
   <cmdsynopsis>
    <command>regina-python</command>
    <group>
     <arg><option>-q, --quiet</option></arg>
     <arg><option>-v, --verbose</option></arg>
    </group>
    <arg><option>-n, --nolibs</option></arg>
    <arg><option>-a, --noautoimport</option></arg>
    <arg><option>-i, --interactive</option></arg>
    <arg choice="req"><replaceable>script</replaceable></arg>
    <arg><replaceable>script-args</replaceable></arg>
   </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>

  <refsect1>
   <title>Description</title>
   &regabstract;
   <para>
    This command starts an interactive &python; session for
    &regina;.  This will be a command-line &python; session, with direct
    text input/output and no graphical user interface.
    All of the objects, clases and methods from &regina;'s mathematical
    engine will be made available through the module
    <parameter>regina</parameter>, which will be imported on startup
    (effectively running <literal>import regina</literal>).
    Moreover, unless the option <option>--noautoimport</option> is
    passed, all of &regina;'s objects, classes and methods will be
    imported directly into the current namespace
    (effectively running
    <literal>from regina import&nbsp;*</literal>).
   </para>
   <para>
    Instead of starting an interactive &python; session, you can pass a
    &python; script (with arguments if desired).  In this case &regina;
    will run the script (after first importing the
    <parameter>regina</parameter> module).
    If you pass <option>--interactive</option>, &regina; will leave you
    at a &python; prompt once the script finishes;
    otherwise it will exit &python; and return you to the command line.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>Options</title>
   <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><option>-q</option></term>
     <term><option>--quiet</option></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       Start in quiet mode.  No output will be produced except
       for serious errors.  In particular, warnings will be suppressed.
      </para>
      <para>
       This is equivalent to setting the environment variable
       <parameter>REGINA_VERBOSITY</parameter>=<literal>0</literal>.
      </para>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><option>-v</option></term>
     <term><option>--verbose</option></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       Start in verbose mode.  Additional diagnostic
       information will be output.
      </para>
      <para>
       This is equivalent to setting the environment variable
       <parameter>REGINA_VERBOSITY</parameter>=<literal>2</literal>.
      </para>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><option>-a</option></term>
     <term><option>--noautoimport</option></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       Still import the <parameter>regina</parameter> module,
       but do not automatically import all of &regina;'s objects,
       classes and methods into the current namespace
       (that is, do not run
       <literal>from regina import&nbsp;*</literal>).
       This means that (for example) the main 3-manifold triangulation class
       must be accessed as <literal>regina.Triangulation3</literal>, not
       just <literal>Triangulation3</literal>.
      </para>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><option>-i</option></term>
     <term><option>--interactive</option></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       Run the script in interactive mode.  After executing the
       given script, &regina; will leave you in the &python; interpreter
       to run your own additional commands.
      </para>
      <para>
       This option is only available when a script is passed.
       If no script is passed, <command>regina-python</command> will
       always start in interactive mode.
      </para>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
   </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>Environment Variables</title>
   <para>
    The following environment variables influence the behaviour of
    this program.  Each variable can also be set in the local
    configuration file <filename>~/.regina-python</filename> using a line
    of the form
    <replaceable>option</replaceable>=<replaceable>value</replaceable>.
    Environment variables will take precedence over values in
    the configuration file.
   </para>
   <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><parameter>REGINA_VERBOSITY</parameter></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       Specifies how much output should be generated.
       Recognised values are:
       <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
         <term><literal>0</literal></term>
         <listitem><para>
          Display errors only; this is equivalent to passing the option
          <option>--quiet</option>.
         </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
         <term><literal>1</literal></term>
         <listitem><para>
          Display errors and warnings; this is the default.
         </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
         <term><literal>2</literal></term>
         <listitem><para>
          Display errors, warnings and diagnostic output; this is
          equivalent to passing the option <option>--verbose</option>.
         </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
       </variablelist>
      </para>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><parameter>REGINA_PYTHON</parameter></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       The command used to start the &python; interpreter.
       By default, &regina; tries to run the same version of &python;
       that it was built against.
      </para>
      <para>
       In general you should use the same version of &python; that &regina;
       was built against; otherwise &python; might not be able to load the
       <parameter>regina</parameter> module.
      </para>
      <para>
       In normal situations you should never need to set this option yourself.
      </para>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><parameter>REGINA_HOME</parameter></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       The directory in which &regina;'s data files are installed.  This
       should be the directory containing the <filename>icons/</filename>
       subdirectory, the <filename>examples/</filename> subdirectory and so on.
      </para>
      <para>
       If you are running &regina; directly out of the source tree, this
       defaults to the top-level source directory.  If you are running
       &regina; from a proper installation, this defaults to the corresponding
       installation directory.
      </para>
      <para>
       In normal situations you should never need to set this option yourself.
      </para>
      <warning>
       <para>
        When running from a proper installation,
        the default <parameter>REGINA_HOME</parameter> is
        hard-wired into the startup script (it is set at compile time).
        If you install &regina; into one directory but then move it by
        hand into another, the default <parameter>REGINA_HOME</parameter>
        will be incorrect.
       </para>
      </warning>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
     <term><parameter>REGINA_PYLIBDIR</parameter></term>
     <listitem>
      <para>
       The directory containing the &python; module
       <filename>regina.so</filename>.
      </para>
      <para>
       If you are running &regina; directly out of the source tree, this
       defaults to a directory within this source tree.  If you are
       running &regina; from a proper installation, this defaults to the
       corresponding installation directory.
      </para>
      <para>
       If you have installed &regina;'s &python; module in a standard
       &python; location (i.e., &python; can import it directly without
       extending <literal>sys.path</literal>), then
       <parameter>REGINA_PYLIBDIR</parameter> should be left empty or undefined.
      </para>
      <para>
       In normal situations you should never need to set this option yourself.
      </para>
      <warning>
       <para>
        Like <parameter>REGINA_HOME</parameter>,
        when running from a proper installation
        the default <parameter>REGINA_PYLIBDIR</parameter> is
        hard-wired into the startup script.
        If you install &regina; into one directory but then move it by
        hand into another, the default <parameter>REGINA_PYLIBDIR</parameter>
        will be incorrect.
       </para>
      </warning>
     </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
   </variablelist>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>&macosx; Users</title>
   <para>
    If you downloaded a drag-and-drop app bundle, this utility is
    shipped inside it.  If you dragged &regina; to the main
    <guilabel>Applications</guilabel> folder, you can run it as
    <literal>/Applications/Regina.app/Contents/MacOS/regina-python</literal>.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>&windows; Users</title>
   <para>
    The command <command>regina-python</command> is not available under
    &windows;.  However, you can still use &python; scripting in &regina;'s
    graphical user interface, by opening a graphical &python; console or
    using script packets.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>See Also</title>
   <para>
    <link linkend="man-regina-gui">regina-gui</link>.
   </para>
   <para>
    &regina; comes with thorough &api; documentation,
    which describes in detail all of the objects, classes and methods that
    &regina; makes available to &python;.
    You can access this documentation via
    &menuapidocs; in the graphical user interface, or read it online
    at &regmanapiurl;.
   </para>
  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
   <title>Author</title>
   <para>
    &manpageack;
   </para>
  </refsect1>
 </refentry>
</appendix>
